The agenda is to rise  Every day we work on educating them about their rights.  Preach: “No one has a right to lift their right hand above your rights.”  I stand today stronger than yesterday because I stand up with more knowledge about my strength than  I did yesterday.  I stand with symbols.  I stand with questions raised.  I stand with punctuation marks.  I’ve heard of this 21st-century mist.  We’re said to be living with a breathing monster in our midst.    Gran-Gran said once upon a time there was peace.  I’m a respectful lad, so I let her speak.  She told me of marriages that stood.  She counted the number of her siblings as proof.  Gran-Gran believes respect is earned, so she let me speak.  I believe in peace, but we chose justice.  I believe in Rome and that Rome is not its walls.  I believe in fake smiles, make-up hides bruises, I believe in silent cries so yes, marriages stood.  Without mutual respect, without love, those papers served as proof.  There’s always been a monster sleeping in humanity’s midst.  So yes, we are in this mist.  And that’s only because the sun’s about to rise.    But before that, we have to rise.  This is a blurry situation in your eyes.  We’ve awoken a beast.  We’re not equipping women with weapons but rather informing them of the weapons already in their  possession.  Teach them their rights so they can know what’s wrong.  Like a boxer fights with both fists while standing on both feet  This monster crumbles under our feet.  This monster that we have sought to kill.  Is the same monster another woman’s son stretches his hand to feed.    He stretches his hand of greed.  He stretches his hand of pride.  He stretches his hand of insecurities wrapped in superiority.  He stretches out his hand of arrogance.  His hand stretches as a result of what he wasn’t told, what he never heard, what he wasn’t shown, what he never saw and everything else that he became.    Mommy tell him.  While he feeds on your breast whisper in his sleep, whisper that he may dream.  Tell him his light doesn’t shine brighter by dimming mine.  Daddy remind him.  As he awakens to chase his dreams.  Remind him he’s a star.  Remind him I’m a star.  Remind him we are stars.  Stars don’t rattle.  Stars don’t battle.  Stars Rise.  