Eyes That Look Are Many,   Eyes That See Are Few       "You saw my yesterday, seated in your lap today,  Dirty-duty rusty and arrogance humming,  Bathing in the smokes of marijuana, basking it malodor,  Yet, you didn't bother to wash me your words of corrections.  Did you? Such rhetoric. My pale eyes pierced through the crowd,  In a satirical stare  numbed I am, but none feel my quake, my fears.  Inner river streaming out, and also my eyes are maps from the  Streams, but none can see this deadly waterfall,  As the verdict is set to fit its fangs on me, and I will jerk a little.  Maybe for a few seconds or so.  The cane of lashes you would have used to caress my arrogance,  And my ignorance purged, paste me with the soap of discipline,  Rinse me in the waters of reprimanding, dry me with the towels  Of follow-up, and smoothing the cap of my attitudes cos' You know,  I don't know. But instead you coddled me in extravagance, sheltered  Me in the coat of pampering, baked me in the oven of negligence,  And now am made into the shape of; had I known!"  The position of the heart is turned, the pale horizon beckoning at him.  In saddened happiness he rolls his eyes. The bat is caught while flying  In the daylight; what next? Judgment soon is knocking on the door.  No brother to keep him, no mother to hood him, no father to stand him.  In the eyes of a prisoner, lies the corridor of lost hopes, disdain has  Eaten up his being "Eyes that look are many, eyes that see are but few."  Death is approaching when hope is far, love is kept in chains when  Hatred is let loose. Men's hearts are heavy, the law must speak  the verdict  is screaming...  Tell marriage! the course of a union and mate is that which tells stakes of  A man's estates. Tell the street boy! the color of palm wine, doesn't  Say its taste. Tell the music, the sound of the gong is not determined  By the player but the payer. Tell fashion! the queen bee's drain tells a drone's  Fate. Tell the Big man, a faithful laborer is worthy of his rewards. Tell  Steve the steward only the honest tortoise eats the healthiest palm fruit.  Please also tell the mechanism of politics, the biggest house is not the safest  Tell the rider, the biggest horse is not always the strongest. Tell the brakes  And accelerators, gentility never breaks a water pot, but in every rush of the  Day, there lies a mistake!  Please plant cautions, deep down root minds of the morrow's Oaks  child  In the eyes of the prisoner  an arena, not for games, in the eyes of the prisoner   A theatre not for fame. In the eyes of the prisoner  a congregation, not for  worshippers.  In the eyes of the prisoner, it is an execution ground!  Eyes stone cold now, dripping ice of "Had I known." As he jerks finally, she stood  by the crowd pouring for her boy, did never see his eyes brown again.  