The Street Kid’s Ballad    The sun feels much colder today. It is almost as if the rising ball of fire dancing across the horizon of tall Jozi buildings is just a mirage. The streets this morning are just as quiet as they are at night. But I knew something was amiss when Mr Jabu no longer allowed us to watch cartoons on old TV sets in his shop window. I knew something was wrong when I felt my mother’s face, colder than usual, and my pleas could no longer rouse her.  The night before had not been colder than any other night as we slept on the street. Our little family of ten people shared food and told stories as we would occasionally get lost watching the fire dance in an empty drum, hoping our past lives would die as the fire did. We prayed, and Mama took her cough medicine she got from the hospital down the road for free. We slept, like every other night, unaware that Mama would not rise with the sun again.  Rasta calls me back to reality by shaking me slightly on the shoulder, just like I had been doing to my mother. Except, unlike her, I come to. When I see Rasta’s pearl necklace intertwined with muddy clothes and the oil hiding under his nails, I realise that last night has passed; my mother’s spirit drifted with the foil paper we used to keep the fire going.  “She is not breathing,” I croak. This voice I speak with is not mine; it is heavy with grief.   Mama had a terrible cough for the past week as well as a fever that even the medicine we had paid for made no difference to. She was sick. That is why the shock only lasted a second on Rasta’s face. If the pain in my heart had allowed me to blink, I would have missed the look on his face. He sighed.  “Stay here, Sibu,” he pleads more than orders. His rags sway as he walks to the rest of our street family. The elder ladies clad in mismatched socks, warm boots and dirty aprons turn to me before I quickly look away and pretend to caress Mama’s beautiful face. I jump when I hear the first wail. My stomach tenses and somersaults, bumping my heart in the process. The old lady is on the cold asphalt, pleading with God to bring my mother back. That is when a droplet lands on my mother’s unmoving hand. The sky is not crying; I am.  I needed to see her beautiful face again, before they covered it like death is a crime. Her beauty reminds me that we live on the streets because of me. How can you kick something so delicate out of your precious house because she got pregnant at a young age? They do not deserve to know that my mother died because of them. My hand shakes, and for a moment I hope it is life returning to Mama’s body, but when I let her hand go and it passively falls on her chest, I know she is gone.  I don’t know how long I sit there and watch older vagrants go about their lives. Them, with their dirty clothes, oversized donated coats, and ripped woollen beanies. They go off to beg, even if cars have become scarce even in the CBD. I feel silly to hate them, to call them filthy, because when I look at my own tattered clothing embellished with hunger, I know that is what I am too. A baby vagrant. But I need to hate someone for taking my mother away.  Sirens screech as polished tires halt in front of Rasta. Sirens are never good, Mama said to run or they will separate us. I plant a kiss on her forehead and scamper across the street. I hide behind a corner close enough to still see Mama. They don’t carry people who are still alive in the back of those cars, Mama. The little hope I was admittedly holding onto was loaded with my mother into the back of the vehicle that only travels in one direction.  I am a stone’s throw away from the CBD before I realise that the sun is setting. My stomach growls in anticipation of food that it usually receives at sunset, but I am full of grief. I plant myself at the door of a shop that has long been abandoned. Even the sun takes forever to set today. Across me is a traffic light bent at the middle, the colors dance as they play hide and seek with each other and remind me of Mr Jabu’s repair shop. It was street kid-friendly territory before people avoided the streets like a plague. A few weeks ago, instead of playing reruns of old cartoon shows, Mr Jabu would put the News channel to play all day. All the pretty ladies in red tops and men in suits would talk about was a new virus called Covid-19.   Watching this everyday was not better than cartoons, but at least the news was new each day. My friends and I would spend our lazy afternoons dusting off our clothes and mimicking the news team for fun. Then when we all huddled round the fire before sleeping, we would recite this news to everyone in serious voices as they would smile and pretend to be shocked when we were too.  “New discoveries are being made on a daily basis, as scientists grapple with the coronavirus.”  “Yes indeed, my fellow colleague. What we know so far about the novel virus is that it acts like the flu. People infected will experience shortness of breath, high fever, persistent cough, and possibly dizziness,” Milika announces.  “This just in. the first case of the coronavirus has hit South Africa. More details to follow,” I close.  We should have sensed that life would change when the adults ushered us to sleep with worried looks on their faces. Mama dressed us up very warm that night and insisted that we sleep inside the blankets even though we always do.  The traffic light flickers on red, warning me to always be alert and bringing me back to reality. Rasta and the rest of the family will be worried by now. Although I know that I should return, what exactly am I returning to? What is life without my mother but an empty shell of crushed dreams?   Sirens and blue lights flash but once before feet in ripped and discoloured shoes flee in different directions. An authoritative voice announces over a high-pitched speaker that people are to stay inside their houses and that they will be arrested if caught on the streets again. What about me, what house should I stay in? The streets are my house, yet even they seem to reject me out of shame.  It takes another flash of blue light to get me to dash into the nearest alleyway. Sirens, people in uniform and I are cat and mouse. I fear them, so I run. My feet control themselves. It is only when I look up that I see a familiar pile of blankets and a TV repair shop.  There are people I have never seen before, covered in white rubber boots, masks from the hospital, gloves, and nurse’s uniforms. They each usher Rasta and the rest of our tiny family into a truck similar in look to the one that took Mama away. Even the sun does not shine on them the way it used to. The truck roars powerfully and coughs into a start. Thick smog escapes from its rear attracted to the news playing on abandoned TVs in a shop.   “Sibu? What are you doing here?” asks a face I do not recognise. I stare, trying to decipher this concerned tone, but nothing comes to.  “Mr Jabu?” I question.  “Yes. You should have been here…”  “Where are they taking them?”  Long street. I only recall going to the homeless shelter during heavy storms and when we would be shooed from our usual spot. The warm soup, fuzzy blankets, and hushed conversations with Mama hold priceless memories. I have to see that place and Rasta again. Mr Jabu stops me before I take off.  “Take this mask and wear it, don’t take it off, Sibu. Always stay at least a meter away from people and when you do sneeze, cover it.” He looks to the news relating South Africa’s first death from Covid-19.   “Stay safe, son,” he nods.  ***  By the time I stand in front of the fading shelter, the sun is battering my back and searing its presence into my feet. An older lady aims a device at my forehead and instructs me to sing “Happy birthday” while I wash my hands. Before I can inquire, she moves on to the next person hoping to find space. I dry my hands on the flimsy material of my tattered pants and set off to join the food line. I did not realise how hungry I was until the bread soaked in soup melts on my parched tongue.   Everyone looks the same with the masks on. How am I to find my family if I cannot tell a stranger from them. I feel the same emptiness I feel when I tried to beg for food and no cars were in sight. People no longer opened their windows to offer us food; they would adjust their masks and speed off. We need them more now, but they are scared to get sick.   “It’s hopeless,” I think as I walk away from the shelter.   “Sibu? Is that you?” that’s what I hear just before warmth fills me.   “Rasta? Milika? Gog’ Viola?” I know we cannot touch, but seeing them is enough for me.  “Where have you been, boy? We have great news. It’s your mother. She is alive!”  Rasta catches me before I hit the ground.   “It’s okay, Sibu. She has the virus, but the hospital says that she is healing. She is at Redcross, downtown. They saw she was breathing so they took her to the emergency ward.”  As sudden as my dizzy spell is my speed to the hospital. She is alive. Mama is alive. The thought propels me forward at an unearthly speed. I ignore the bile threatening to explode and the burning in my lungs because my mother is alive. I should never have left her. And I never will again.  I want to remove the suffocating mask, but Mama’s health depends on me. For the first time, I don’t mind the strong stench of soapy alcohol on my hands, the scratchy mask on my face, and the new clothes I am wearing. The nurse talks me through my visit before I see my mother’s face. She is getting better. I see her, but they do not allow me to go close to her.  “Sibu,” Mama says through a breathless smile. From that look in her eyes, I know that we will survive this, we will heal, and everything will be just fine.  