21st century “cure” for homosexuality   Mama had already booked me an appointment against my will and my session was set for Wednesday at 12. When Wednesday came, she skipped work and we met just outside town where we had agreed she would pick me up and we would go together. Her reason for this going together was that she did not trust me. She did not trust that I would go see the one person who would “cure” me of my homosexuality, or so she hoped. I know this because she said it.    “I want to take you there myself so you do not run away, I want to see you go in myself.”     I was conflicted by this attitude. Why would I run away mama? Was the doctor going to beat the homosexuality out of me? Was I too sick that I resisted treatment like an addict? And, where would I run to? Do you now not know that I am an obedient child ma?    The drive to the doctor’s office was about two minutes long, and we sank into a habitual silence, only this time, the silence was more aggressive. It demanded that I feel it, the disappointment sitting in her heart to have to take her firstborn daughter to the doctor for a homosexuality cure that she did not even know existed. However, sitting in that passenger seat, a fire was lit inside me. I was in anticipation. Mama did not know this. She did not know that her daughter, the one filled with “demons” and who was active in “satanic rituals” as she always said, had wanted to see a mind doctor for years. She did not know that I had wanted to speak to someone, a stranger, about my crumbled life for ages. For me, going there was something my bones had longed for since I started feeling sick many summers ago.    Sitting there, red leather couch underneath, opposite me was a tall and fair-skinned lady with long hair. She was dressed in a long dress with multiple layers of cloth with even more bright colors than a peacock’s tail. Dr Nobuhle, that was her name, and she embodied the SOLER psychologist posture we had learnt about in class during the last semester. The one where the doctor is supposed to sit up straight and open their legs wide enough for comfort but not enough for their opponent’s eyes to view their undergarments.     The wall behind me was beautified with paintings of African women in a relaxed state. Hmm, she views the role of women differently than the rest – I thought. The wall on her left-hand was full of framed academic qualifications, from a degree in nursing to a PhD in clinical psychology. How old was this woman? Where did she get the time to study for all this? On my left-hand side stood a red cloth-covered side-table with a half-full tissue box. She knew it. She knew that she made people cry a lot. It was probably in her job description. And maybe, as a psychology student, I was yet to read about this in the following years of study. Perhaps develop the same skill.     Dr Nobuhle greeted me with a smile and a stale compliment, “You look beautiful,” she has probably said this to all her first-time patients before with the aim of making them comfortable in her presence. I smile and say “Thank you,” but I do not actually believe her. My self-esteem is that close to the floor, and it is not about to be redeemed by the same person whose said mission is to separate me from my being.     After the traditional greeting, she handed me a form to read and sign, with the opportunity to ask for clarity of course. My hands were shaking. I was feeling cold, even with the sweat forming under my armpits and between my non-existent breasts. Seeing the words “Confidentiality Clause” printed in bold lifted the anxiety off me, and I signed the contract immediately. However, I still posed the question to her.     “What does the confidentiality clause concept entail?”     I had to take caution because I did not want the content of our discussion shared with my mother – the person who sent me here and is paying for all this – as she was one of my many issues.     But she put the form aside, and asked me one question. One question that would shift the blueprint of my future for the better.     “Who are you, what can you tell me about yourself?”    I stuttered. What did she mean by that? I’m Qhawekazi, duh. Did the biographical data section of my form not provide that detail already? I asked her what it was that she wanted. Please doctor, be a little more specific.     “Where were you born? How did you grow up?”    And so began the hour-long epileptic episode of crying. The only words I can remember uttering to successful completion are “I was born at a hospital in Gauteng in 1997...” And there, she had done it, the doctor had used her “make them cry” on me.     I had to take a deep breath as soon as I stepped outside, and I called mama to let her know that I was done. I had obeyed her, but the doctor had not.   