The Girl With The ’Stache    The girl with the moustache lived two streets away from our house. Her parents christened her Omolara but everyone in the neighbourhood called her Stache, and so did all the students at school despite the persistent warnings from our teachers. We attended the same secondary school, which was nearby, but we never walked together. When we took the school bus, we never shared a word.   Stache was like a goldfish with no hiding place. Wherever she went, she became the topic of discussion. There was this one time my mother and I were at a supermarket, and Omolara and her mother were there too. I noticed the bizarre look in the eyes of other customers as she and her mother trolley by. It was the same look the students in school had whenever she walked by or entered a classroom or a hall. It was also the look I wore the first time I saw her. There was something in her eyes when she was looked at that way. Sometimes, it was that she cared about the thoughts people had about her; at other times, it was that she did not.  I always wondered how she truly felt whenever people spoke about her, like she was not a human with feelings, as though because she had a moustache almost as prominent as that of my late father’s she had no right to be upset when people spoke about her and labelled her. I wondered how it must be for her walking with a woman’s face and a man’s visage.   On school mornings, while we took the bus, Stache would sit at the extreme end by the window, her ears plugged, oblivious of everyone. Sometimes, she would hold a notepad doodling something or maybe writing. I took particular interest in her, but I feared that if I approached her for a conversation, it was not going to turn out well. She was beautiful regardless. It was strange to see a girl just like me with a moustache yet, she looked graceful, like she didn’t have any unusual features on her face. As though she was just like the rest of us.   A lot of my schoolmates jeered at her and alienated her. According to them, she was not normal. How do you define normal? I was always tempted to ask them, but I would shy away. It was not going to be easy being the only voice standing up against the bullying.   I remember the day Ogochukwu said in Omolara’s hearing that it was possible her mother had committed a grievous sin while she was pregnant with her, and so she paid for it with the child in her womb. She had said it casually, like it did not matter, or that the person she spoke of had no feelings. It happened on the bus on the way from school. As usual, Omolara was sitting in the backseat of the bus. Ogochukwu and I, with some other girls I hardly spoke to, sat in seats in front of Omolara. The other girls cackled like chickens. It was hilarious to them. I hated it. It piqued me. Why would anyone say such horrible things about someone they barely even knew? It was despicable. I had just learnt the word. Despicable. So I used it on Ogochukwu.   “You know those words are unfair and this behaviour is despicable,” I said.   “Keep being a bore. If it’s not funny to you, it’s funny to us,” she riposted.  She eyed me like I was saying something meaningless and continued laughing with the other girls.  I turned to see the look on Omolara’s face. She was plugged in as usual. I wondered if she heard those words. I believed she did, but she only pretended not to. While the girls laughed, I took out my AirPods and plugged them in. Like her, I did not want to hear the horrible things the others had to say about her.   Day after day, I longed to speak with Omolara; to get to know her, but each day ended with me failing to walk up to her to tell her that I believed she was brave. It was only a brave girl who would put up with all the foul things that were said about her every other day.   Like many others, I had only come to know that her name was Omolara on the day Mrs Adebanjo, the principal, called her out at assembly and, in front of everyone, said she was one of the best-behaved students. My admiration for her began to grow even more. Yet, something kept stopping me from walking up to her and saying hello. She was in the same class as I was but in a different arm. In an SS2 class of over a hundred students and four arms, two being science class arms and the other two being art classes, Stache was in Arm A of Arts while I was in Arm B of Science.   I watched her closely, keenly, like a birdwatcher watched birds. At times, I creeped myself out, wondering if I was any different from the serial stalkers I watched on television. One Saturday, I found her Facebook page and I spent a good two and a half hours, going through her posts.     Omolara Salisu. Student at Grey Hill High, Lagos. Loves to read, draw and sing. Lives in Lagos, Nigeria. From Ondo, Nigeria.  That was her profile. I went through her posts, pictures and everything that she had put up. I checked everyone she was friends with. She had a thing for books and authors. She had a few book review posts. There were also beautiful artworks up. One caught my eye. An abstract — something strange yet appealing. She had beautiful pictures. With a slender face, chiselled cheekbones and deep brown eyes and hair so full, all I could see was beauty personified.  In a post, entitled “Becoming the Girl with the Moustache”, she wrote about accepting her hirsutism. It was a big word. I Googled it and there it was. Hirsutism pronounced HUR-soot-iz-um was a condition in women that results in excessive growth of hair in a male-like pattern on the face, chest and back caused by the presence of excess male hormones in women, primarily the testosterone. How in the world was I the best student in Biology since SS1 and I had no idea what hirsutism was? I felt terrible. Stache was struggling with a condition many of us girls back in Grey Hill High did not know about or understand and yet, she was treated day in day out as an outcast.   In her post, I read her raw, honest words about dropping the razor and no longer shaving off her moustache because it was a part of who she was, and she was no longer ashamed of it.   I knew then that the other girls in school and I were nothing like Omolara. We were not brave. We were not honest. We were not accepting of who we truly were. Since junior school, I had been in a relationship with Jasper, who was now the Senior Prefect, but I knew that Jasper — or any other boy — was not who I wanted to be with. There was a different kind of energy I felt when I was with girls, but unlike Omolara Salisu AKA Stache, I was not proud to own who I really was. Perhaps, it was why I was drawn to her. I admired her strength and her valour. She was not afraid to show the world her insecurities or what they considered her abnormalities. I did not understand why I felt the way I felt about Stache until I spent those two hours and thirty minutes of my life on her Facebook wall.   I was not alone in this fear of the unknown and longing for acceptance. It was the same for Ogochukwu, my best friend who was also sometimes my worst enemy. Ogochukwu was not always the mean girl. When her family broke apart, the fear of people knowing she was from a broken home led to her putting up a wall. Now, I wonder if she felt Stache had bigger problems than she did just because she had a moustache on her face, and this gave her the license to make jest of her. Meanwhile, she actually feared being alone and being taunted as the girl whose father left her mother for an older, wealthier woman. I watched this metamorphosis take place as we turned seven, then eight, then ten and now, fifteen. The story Ogochukwu told all who cared to listen was that her father had died. She would narrate a well-detailed death story that even I, sometimes, believed. I wished she would allow herself to be vulnerable. Maybe then, she would learn empathy.   After that day-in-the-life of Stache through her Facebook wall, I understood that life was not always black or white. Sometimes, there were grey lines between. Through her eyes, I learnt that we all deserved some kindness. So, I decided to meet Stache and introduce myself to her and tell her I admired her, well, without sounding like a stalker.   It was the weekend, so I had to wait until Monday to see her and to say everything I longed to tell her. About how beautiful she was and how brave I believed her to be. I had spent the rest of the weekend rehearsing the right words to say.   “Hi, Omolara. My name is Gladys. Gladys Okonkwo.”   In my practice, I imagined that she would reply and angrily so, “I know who you are. You are Jasper’s girlfriend and also friends with that mean girl, Ogochukwu. What do you want from me?”  I cleared the thought and came up with something else. She would smile at me, her dimples would stand out, and she would tell me it was nice to meet me. We would talk on and on, laugh, play, and get to know each other without talking about her moustache. She would feel normal. Okay. Beautiful. She would not be reminded of the bullies she had to endure, and she would have consolation in the fact that someone saw her as normal because that was who she was.   On Sunday night, I had a dream about her. She felt so real.  “You’re beautiful,” I told her.   She smiled, flashing a lovely set of teeth.  “I don’t hear that often,” she said.  “I know.”  We were quiet for a moment. I watched her closely. Keenly. Passionately.   “How does it feel?” I asked.  “How does what feel?”   “Having people see you like you are someone... something different?”  Her face brightened.   “Different isn’t a bad thing now, is it?” she said. She had a point. “People fear what they don’t understand. You just have to own who you are. That’s what I do.”   Her words rang like a bell in my head. Own who you are. Own who you are. “I like you,” I told her.   “Then why do you stay away, Gladys?”  My alarm rang. I was awake. It was Monday. I felt a tightness in my stomach. Perhaps, it was because I had never felt that way about anyone before.    I took the bus that morning and went to the backseat where she usually sits. She was not there. The tightness in my stomach returned.   At assembly, the news came.   “Students,” Mrs Adebanjo addressed us. “I have some bad news.”  The tightness returned.   “One of us has painfully left us.”  The tightness heightened.   “You all know Omolara Salisu, one of our brightest students.”  There were loud mumbles from different ends. I felt the need to puke. Mrs Adebanjo’s voice faded away with a ringing sound in my ears.   “She has left us to be with the Lord.”  That was it. My body gave way to the ground and I hit it hard. I could not remember what happened next. I opened my eyes to a whirling fan in the ceiling. Looking around, I realised I was in the sickbay. The nurse walked up to me. “Gladys, you are awake. You had everyone worried. How are you feeling?”   All I wanted to know was what happened to Omolara. “What happened to her?” I asked.  “Who?” the nurse asked, confused.  “Omolara. The student who died.”   The nurse shakes her head mournfully. “Sickle cell. She died on Saturday.”  I began to cry. She consoled me, asking if we were friends. I wish I had the right answers to that question. I wish I could say yes confidently, but all I knew about Omolara were from words I read off her Facebook page. I shook my head. She asked me to lie down so I could rest. “Your mother would come pick you soon. We’ve called her.”  I did not really pay attention to her. All I could think about was how Omolara was dying while I stalked her Facebook. It was how I never had the courage to tell her how I felt or to be kind to her. It was how I could never protect her against the harsh words and the judging eyes that were always up against her. I felt something. Guilt. I felt guilty.  While my mother drove us home, worried about why I had fainted and she had to be called, I thought only about Stache.   “Do you know their daughter died? The one who goes to school with me,” I said, as we drove past Stache’s house. I made sure not to describe her as the girl with the moustache.  “The nurse mentioned to me. That’s very sad. Were you two close?”  She made a right turn into the street leading to ours.   “No, Mummy. We weren’t.”  “Let’s get you home so you can eat something.”   “I wish we were,” I said.  “What?”  “I wish we had been close. Me and Omolara.”  “Was that her name? And, it’s Omolara and I.”  Was. My mother said was. I ignored her correction. This was no time for grammar lessons.  “Yes. Omolara is her name.”   She smiled wryly. “She’s resting now,” she said. “That’s what matters.”  I piqued at how casual my mother felt about her death. She had no idea how much Omolara meant to me. She had no idea that she was a source of hope for me. That she made believe I could also own what I was feeling. This person that I was. Unknown to my mother, deep down, I was attracted to Omolara.   Omolara felt like my soulmate. Like she was a part of me I had to live with. To live for. Like she was meant to be a light to me. And when she died, it felt like those two hours and a half I spent in the pages of her Facebook and the dream about us were a forever we both shared. It felt like I had known her all my life.  We pulled up in the driveway.   “I have something to tell you, Mummy,” I said to her.  She looked at me, worried, wondering what secrets I had to tell.   “Is something wrong?”  “No, Mummy. There’s just something about me that you need to know.”  She was curious now. “Okay. Let’s go in and then you can tell me everything.”  As we walked into the house, she was all I could think about. Her flashing smile, her bold words to me and her confidence that filled a room. I was assured that she would have wanted me to be this courageous and to be, like Shakespeare said, true to myself. In that moment, I heard her voice softly saying to me, Own who you are.  “Come sweetie, tell me everything,” Mummy’s voice cut in.   