Down by The Vlei    No one from school ever walked home with Shawn. People said it was because he was strange, but Shawn knew it was because of the vlei-crocodiles.   The Vlei was the languid, reed-choked stream that bisected Shawn’s suburb of Grasrand. In the dry winter months, it was less a capillary of the Vaal River and more a varicose vein. There were quicker ways home than to walk alongside it, but none better as far as Shawn was concerned – especially on Fridays. Fridays were magical, no-homework days.   He was hurling stones at vlei-eagles (otherwise experienced as hadedas) on one such wintery Friday when a noise scaled the walls of his make-believe world. He stopped mid-throw to listen to it. It was a sad sound – like crying, but worse. Sobbing? Yes, he thought that was what Miss Felix had called it.    Stop sobbing Shawn. There, there… it’ll be OK.   His eyes darted up, down and across like little green searchlights. His ears couldn’t quite tell him which direction to look in; the crying sound was too fluid, mixing with the rustling of the reeds. He wasn’t completely sure if it was being made by a person; it sounded wrong somehow. Unnatural? Yes, that was one he’d learnt from his mother.    Spending so much time alone. Talking to yourself. It’s unnatural for a boy your age.   Of course, it had to be a person’s voice; only people could sob. But then where were they? He couldn’t see anyone around. And there was nowhere to hide, unless they were hiding inside The Vlei. Just then a loud shrieking wail rang out, sending a flock of wagtails flapping and screeching into the pale-blue sky. Shawn followed their example and raced home to his mother, his un-tucked shirt billowing out behind him like a tail of his own.   ‘I don’t have time for your games right now, okay Shawn?’ His mother was hunched over a pile of soapy dishes.   ‘I’m not playing Mom! I think I heard a ghost – crying – at The Vlei. Come see!’   ‘At The Vlei? Shawn. It’s bad enough you wasting my time here, but now you expect me to trek all the way up there. I’m sorry my boy, but I—’   ‘But you’re not listening to me mom. I heard—’   ‘You heard me say I’m not going down there.’   ‘But—’   ‘But nothing, Shawn! Listen here: I clean. I cook. I buy you things. And not a word of thanks. Fine. But why do you have to make up stories to scare yourself, on top of everything else?’ Shawn made no reply. ‘Enough now. Please. Go play with your friends.’   ‘But I don’t have any friends.’   ‘Imagine some if you’re too fucked-up to make any real ones.’ She punctuated this with the sharp click of her tongue, never once looking up from the sink.    Shawn was stung. But his grandmother was right when she had said things didn’t hurt so much after they had happened to you a few times. He used to cry when he stepped on a bee or when his mother said mean things to him. Now he just winced, pulled out the stinger and went on his way.  ***  Shawn’s breath grew steamier the closer he got to The Vlei. He wondered whether ghosts got cold, and whether the one from yesterday would be there again so early on a Saturday. He needed to find out. He needed to prove that it wasn’t imaginary. And he knew that for that to happen, he would have to see The Vlei as it really was.    It wouldn’t be easy. He’d worked hard on his version, building on it since Grade Two when he’d first started walking to and from Grasrand Primary. And that was a lifetime ago; he was already in Grade Three. But he was tired of no one taking him seriously. So, standing at the edge of the Vlei’s small bank in black rubber boots and a blue matching tracksuit, Shawn Quinton Hendricks closed his eyes and emptied his mind. When he opened them again, it happened.   A din of bizarre sounds subsided, then died; rich smells diffused into nothingness; colours inconceivable washed away. Only a yellow-brown stillness remained, like the unstarted page of a colouring book. Shawn didn’t like it. He didn’t like how the willow trees weren’t whispering secret messages to each other anymore, or how the king’s castle had been reduced to a public toilet block, nor how the goblin caves had become stormwater drains. But then it didn’t matter; he could hear the voice.   He hopped down The Vlei’s small embankment into ankle-deep water, eager to get closer to it – to whoever, or whatever, owned it. It was crying again. But it sounded even stranger this time. Scratchier, he thought. The more he listened to it, the more it reminded him of the time he’d got tonsillitis. He wondered if ghosts could get tonsillitis.   ‘Only one way to find out,’ he whispered to himself. It felt like the right thing to say. He took a moment to steel himself and then set off to trace the voice, scanning the Vlei’s tangled mess of reeds as he went.    It was slow going, made slower still by figments of his imagination that kept trying to force their way back into the world. At one point, a monster with a cavernous mouth leapt across his path; he had to remind himself that it was only really a frog. Focus, he thought – another word he’d learnt from Miss Felix.    Things would be so much better for you, if you could just learn to focus, Shawn!    So he soldiered on, determined and alone in a dank corridor of reeds. Alone that was, but for a miserable voice that rose and fell, from loud groans to whimpers that were barely audible over the squelching of his boots. And then, just as he felt he was getting close to it, the voice stopped. Shawn froze. It felt as if the clay-like muck beneath his feet had suddenly set hard, trapping him. Had it noticed him? Was it hiding?   ‘Help,’ something croaked. ‘Please... help.’ It could have come from the reeds to his left but he didn’t want to look. Instead, he squeezed his eyes shut and wished himself away. When he opened them this time, nothing had changed.    Shawn set his gaze firmly on the stagnant water around his boots. Tiny clouds of breath puffed out from him in locomotive rhythm. Nothing more from the voice. Good. Maybe it had left. Maybe he’d imagined it. Then the water rippled. He knew he hadn’t caused it; he hadn’t moved an inch. Another ripple. His steam-train breath sped up. A hand shot out and gripped his ankle. He screamed a silent scream, hoping desperately that his feet would come free from the muck and whatever it was that held him. They did. He slipped once, twice and then scrambled up the bank, not daring to look back. He could hardly breathe for fear, yet he ran home faster than he would run again in all his life.   The filthy mark of the thing from The Vlei was still on him as he searched the house for his mother. ‘Mom! Mommy! The Ghost! Mom!’ he ran – half-crying, half-shouting – up the stairs and paused at her bedroom door. She shoved a pill container into the pocket of her gown and picked up her lipliner, before speaking to him through the reflection of her dressing table mirror.   ‘What’s the matter hey, my—’ Now she turned to look at him, taking the lipliner away from her face, ‘oh, Shawn! Look at yourself. You’re a mess. It’ll be all over the house now! Really Shawn, you don’t think.’    ‘Sorry Mom, but you have to come see,’ he said as if it were all one word. ‘The ghost, Mom! It touched me. And it spoke to me. I think we need to go back there and—’ He was still trying to catch his breath.   ‘It spoke to you, hey? I wish it had told you to take your boots off before coming inside.’ She had taken up her lipliner again and added, half to herself, ‘Would be nice if you made a friend like that.’    ‘Mom, it’s not my friend. It’s a ghost! And it’s real. It touched my leg. Look!’ He pointed at his left boot, ankle-height. His mother gave him a quick glance through the mirror.   ‘And what exactly am I supposed to be looking at? You got that crap all over you. I can see that for sure! Now go and wash up. Please, Shawn.’    ‘You not looking properly. I just want you to come see,’ Shawn pleaded.   ‘And you not listening properly.’ His mother turned on her dresser-stool to face him straight-on, ‘It’s like talking to a brick wall with you sometimes. Now stop distracting me and for the last time, go clean yourself up. Mommy’s busy.’   Shawn left the room without saying anything else. Maybe she’d heard it too, he supposed. Maybe she’s scared. His mother always got mean when she was scared. He decided to spend the rest of the day, out of her way, watching TV. Nothing could grab at him in the snug warmth of the lounge.  ***  When Shawn looked outside his bedroom window, he found the early morning draped in a white, perforated sheet. But it wasn’t snow. It was never snow. He put on his unwashed tracksuit and rubber boots, and then scratched around his drawers in search of gloves. The noise reached his mother at the end of the passage.    Normally, she’d still have been asleep. But she was worried about her son. He’d been acting strange, even by his standards. She’d heard him talking to himself the night before. That in itself wasn’t unusual, but there was something unnerving about the hushed tones he’d used. Something conspiratorial? Yes, that was the word. And then there was the handprint on his boot. She’d pretended she’d hadn’t noticed it because she didn’t like to encourage him. But she had noticed it. It had looked too big to be Shawn’s. But then, she supposed, he was a growing boy.   She suspected he was getting ready to go off to the damned Vlei again, on what was surely the coldest day of the year. And, she suspected, he was trying to be sneaky about it too. As if on cue, she heard the front door click open, and then quietly shut. No time to get properly dressed then, not if she was going to see what her boy was up to.   It wasn’t long before Shawn was at the scene of his encounter the day before. The sun shone upon the yellow-white Vlei in heatless rays. But there was no moaning or wailing now. No reeds rustled; no water rippled. There was a new smell though. It smelt like pain and despair and rotten mince.   He knew his mom wasn’t far behind. The rattling of the pillbox in her gown pocket had given her away. But she thought she was being sneaky, so he pretended not to notice that she was following him. He was glad she was coming but worried that he’d have nothing to show her. What was keeping Angie?    Shawn’s mother spied him through a gap in the reeds.    ‘Shawn, over here! It’s me. Time to come home, my boy. C’mon.’ Shawn turned towards her and made a slow beckoning gesture, saying nothing. She didn’t like that gesture one bit, but felt compelled to obey. ‘Fine then,’ she said under her breath, ‘I’ll come fetch you.’   As she clambered gingerly down the Vlei’s bank into the corridor of reeds, she was hit with the stench of the place.   ‘Ugh! What’s that smell!?’ There was a part of her that seemed to know exactly what it was. But she pushed the thought away. In response, Shawn only shrugged. ‘What the hell are you doing down here, Shawn? Are you alone?’   ‘You don’t have to whisper, Mom.’   ‘Oh. Didn’t realise I… let’s go back home hey, sweetie?   ‘Not yet please, Mommy. I want you to see.’    ‘See what, Shawn? I’ve seen The Vlei before. Come, I’ll make us some brekkie before church.’   ‘But I think she’s finally here. It’s like you said, Mom: people are just slow starters on a Sunday.’   ‘What? She? Who, Shawn? There’s no one here. I want to go now please. Come on.’   ‘If there’s no one here Mom, why you still whispering?’   Shawn’s mother looked down at her feet as if to find an answer there. When she looked up, she saw a womanly figure like a photo in negative standing behind her son. She stepped backwards and slipped onto The Vlei’s marshy floor.   ‘Christ, Shawn. Behind you!’ Now the shadow-thing had its hands on his shoulders.   ‘It’s okay Mom,’ Shawn replied, full of cheer. ‘Angie visited me last night. While you was sleeping. I wish she came before but it doesn’t matter ’cos we friends now. And she’s not even imaginary. Cool-hey?’   Shawn thought his mother looked like she was going to be sick. He wasn’t sure if he liked that, but he knew that he liked how he had her attention. Now she was listening. Now she had time. He watched on as she struggled to her feet, her dressing gown streaked with vlei-mud.   ‘Who… are you?’ Shawn’s mother bleated at the shadow-thing, not knowing if it would respond, if it could respond. For a moment, it did nothing. Then it flicked an ethereal finger at a nearby thicket of reeds. The thicket separated down the middle and revealed a woman’s soggy, grey corpse. Its neck was bent in a way that seemed... unnatural.   ‘Oh-god-no. No. Shawn, come here. We need to g—’ The shadow-thing put its finger to where its lips might have been.   ‘Angie says you need to shut up and listen for a change.’ Shawn’s voice was toneless now. His mother gulped. Two translucent eyes flicked in her direction, and a great gust of wind was sent rushing upon her. A piece of paper slapped against her face and got caught there. She peeled it off.    ‘She wants you to read it, Mom. Out loud.’ And so she did:    Missing: Angela Buthelezi  Age: 29  Appearance: Medium height, slim build, brown hair, brown eyes  Last seen at Ruby Resort & Casino, Vaal River      The last part she said in a low hush. Ruby Resort and Casino was just on the edge of town. She looked up at the spectre of Miss Buthelezi, unbelieving. It still had its hands on him.   ‘Angie says you could have saved her. She said you had two chances to save her. Do you know what she means, Mom?’ His mother could only stare, aghast. Then Shawn and the thing he called Angie both made to turn, and panic brought her back.   ‘Just come over here. Please Shawn! We’ll come back just now, okay?’   ‘Angie says you’re lying. She says lying is what’ll get you face down in a puddle, choking on swamp water.’ His mother whimpered, then began to cry. ‘Angie says crying doesn’t help anything. She’s going now. She says she’s taking me with unless you can give her a good reason why not… and she doesn’t think you can.’   ‘What? Take you? No! This is crazy. She can’t! You’re coming with me.’   ‘But there’s no friends for me back there. No real ones. Angie says I’ll make lots where she’s going.’ A thin but genuine smile spread across his otherwise lineless face.   His mother dropped to her knees. ‘Help! She’s trying to take him…’ Her voice trailed off, ‘...help me.’ There was no one around to hear her. It sounded like the spectre clicked its tongue, and Shawn spoke for it once more: ‘Angie says it’s time to go now. She knows how busy you are.’   ‘No. WAIT! Don’t! Tell me what you want. Just don’t take him. Please!’ Shawn looked up into the empty face behind his shoulder and then back at his mother with furrowed brows.   ‘Angie says she doesn’t like repeating herself. She says it’s a simple question: why shouldn’t she take me with her?’ A moment’s pause from his mother and then her face turned from white to red.   ‘You can’t take him,’ she insisted. She shot up and marched towards them. But as soon as she got within touching distance, she was knocked back a step by some invisible force. For a half-second she couldn’t understand what had happened. Then she looked up at Angie – at the ghost. It shook its head. She glared at it, and then roared, ‘HE’S MINE!’ Shawn sighed.    ‘Angie says: “wrong answer.”’   Shawn moved to stand by Angie’s side. She held his hand. The two of them turned away from his mother and began to walk down the Vlei’s reedy corridor, only Shawn’s feet splashing in the water.   ‘No, this isn’t happening. This can’t be hap—’ Shawn looked behind him and cut her off.   ‘You still don’t believe me, Mom?’   ‘No-no-wait! That’s not what I meant. What must I do? Just tell me WHAT TO DO!’   ‘You should’ve come seen.’   A foul wind swept across The Vlei. Shawn’s mother let out a terrible, animal scream. The reeds hissed. And they were gone.  