The Girl Who Played Rede    I  At the age of seven, the boy met the girl who would change his life.   Just after finishing kindergarten, his parents enrolled him at Mwembeni Primary School. Contrary to its name, the school didn’t have a single mango tree to be found in its sprawling sandy grounds, just pine trees whose wheezing songs created a condition in pupils that was known as buzzing ears.  The school was even more peculiar for the dust devils that roamed its grounds, wrapping the buildings in a fog of dust every afternoon after lunch break.  Upon being placed in Class C, the skinny boy had developed the habit of hiding behind the toilet during handwriting class, after he received a whooping for the chicken scratch he turned in.  When the other kids started telling the teachers that he was hiding in the toilet, the boy decided it was time to stay away from school during handwriting class.   He was attracted by the dumpster on his way to school, where discarded condoms, some filled with alabaster liquid, were strewn around with an effrontery that made Sister Maria, a despotic nun who ran the only kindergarten school in the entire district, cross herself after passing that sickening place.  Upon closer inspection, the boy saw that the prophylactic weapons could be put to good use. He peeled the elastic bands from the condoms. He took small pieces of paper, folded them, and bent them in the middle. He affixed the folded pieces of paper to the elastic band, spread between his thumb and index finger, then pulled it back, palm facing outward. Upon release, the catapult would send the piece of folded paper flying.  For the classes that he attended, sitting at the back of the class, the boy would take aim at the napes of the kids in front; he would feign innocence when his victims turned around, pretending that his attention was directed to the whizzing pines. The boy always looked innocent, because his eyes had the expression of a scared cat.  When the rascal disturbed the girls with his catapult, he thought about the boy who herded his father’s cows, who was adept in matters of slingshots. Every evening, he would come back with a bird he had taken down. “I fed a big pigeon to the dog today,” he would boast.   The boy, who liked the idea of shooting down birds that danced on telephone lines, was quick to admit to himself that he lacked the skill for it, after he had once launched a stone into his own face using the herder’s catapult.  For that reason, the boy abandoned his catapult and dedicated his time away from the handwriting class to building bird nests. He used Velcro-like plants he had seen around the school, and after imitating the work of weavers, he placed his finest nests in a bush near the school, with the hope of attracting birds.  His optimism was held together by the excitement of possibly finding eggs, but was shattered after weeks of waiting. He didn’t have a choice but to succumb to the conclusion that was best summed up a line that crossed his mind, “Maybe they don’t want nests to be woven for them.”  The following day, when a film of dust in the air made him languid, he dissolved his nest-making business and hopped onto another idea, whose spontaneous origin sprang upon him when he was watching a group of girls playing rede, a game like dodgeball.  He knew at that moment that he would move into another adventure, one of stealing mathematical sets from girls playing rede.    II  Mathematical sets were a requirement for pupils of Standard Three and above. For boys, they were boring metal containers; for girls, they were more than just metal boxes with angles, half squares, rulers, pens and pencils. They were dolls, whose insides were decorated with fabric like pieces of kanga or vitenge, and perfumed with fragrances stolen from their mothers’ chest of drawers.  Some girls would adorn them with dried flowers or embellish them with cut-out pictures of singers, actresses, and models they found in newspapers and magazines.   Mathematical sets were also secret troves for love letters, whose declarations were both naïve and universal; although each love letter was personal, each read like every other letter from other girls, in other schools, in other districts.  Rede was a game played by girls. Only girls.  There were two teams with equal numbers of players. Two members of the fielding team stood about ten meters apart, and their job was to eliminate the members of the dodging team with a ball about the size of a tennis ball, made of a sock stuffed with pieces of old clothing.  The dodging team sent one member at a time to the middle of the court, with two objectives: to dodge the ball and fill an empty soda bottle—mostly Mirinda or Coca Cola— with sand using her palms; the bottle was placed in the middle of the court.   To fill the bottle, the dodger had to catch the ball and throw it away, or wait for one of the fielders to commit a bad throw: the ball not landing in the hands of the other field.  With every filled bottle, the dodger saved an eliminated teammate; after all the dodgers were eliminated, the fielders became the dodgers.    III  The boy decided to steal mathematical sets from the girls playing rede because during these moments, their schoolbags, some knitted and others bought from Arab shops, were piled together a few meters away and unattended.   Rede was like tennis. While everyone was spellbound by the ball and the dancing dodger, the boy’s strategy was to sit close to the pile like an innocent spectator. With the swift precision of a pelican, he would draw a mathematical set from the bag.  The boy couldn’t take the sets home: his father checked his schoolbags regularly and he would draw a stick from the pile he stored under his bed and start the beating if he chanced upon an item that didn’t belong to his son.   The boy wished that his father was like Aboubakari’s father; Aboubakari had once gone to school for an entire month with a bag filled with pebbles, sticks, and empty cigarette packs.  So he decided to hide them in the small graves he dug in an empty farm near the condom dumpster.   After a streak of stealing without being apprehended, the scraggy boy came to two conclusions: either he was very good at stealing, or he had luck on his side. The latter made him recite a prayer before and after stealing.  This was how the boy saw the girl.     IV  She was different from the rest, with the skin that appeared to have been dipped in honey and warmed by the morning sun. Her slender body was hugged by a white shirt and a blue skirt with two flaps for tying a bow at the back.  When he saw her dodging, he experienced a pounding in his chest that for a brief moment made him forget stealing: her flitting skirt tugged by her serpentine waist, her arms guiding her body like a music conductor, her gaze focused on the ball that chased her like a bull after a matador. He was entranced.  He didn’t know how long he was under her spell before he quickly drew a mathematical set from one of the bags and walked away, hiding it inside his shirt.  He took shelter fifty meters away beneath the only eucalyptus tree in school, a tree whose legend excited the pupils. It was said that on Fridays, evil spirits cooked biryani there, and based on the aroma, the pupils would say, “Today, they have used too many cloves,” “Today, too much cinnamon,” or even, “Too much cardamon.” But when it was cooked to perfection, they would sit in their classrooms and quietly savour the imaginary biryani.  That afternoon when the bell ended recess, the girls picked up their bags to go back to class. The beautiful girl opened hers to put the ball in it. She must have noticed that something was wrong, because she emptied its contents on the sand. The boy knew what she was looking for.   She started crying. Her friends gathered around her.   For the first time, the boy experienced self-condemnation and a feeling that kneaded his heart. Keeping his distance, he followed the crying girl, who was flanked by a throng of friends trying to console her.   For the rest of the afternoon, the skinny boy was haunted by pangs of guilt, as the image of the crying girl lingered in his mind. When school was dismissed, he went and stood near her class. When she came out, her eyes were puffy. After she had bid her friends goodbye and started walking home, the boy followed her. He pursued her through a narrow path, between the fields belonging to the school where the pupils cultivated and harvested corns and beans.  They ascended a small hill via a road that rolled between two boulders with graffiti on them that said Socialism and Self-Sufficiency, and home to a madman by the name of Ticha who, years before, was the headmaster of the school. He was screaming, “Nyerere is dead! Bring the coffin!” The man he was proclaiming to be dead was very much still alive.  After the rocks, the road descended toward a rustic, small hamlet of chaotic mud houses that populated the expanse like mushrooms whose corroded roofs failed to illuminate life.  The girl walked into a rectangular house with a rusty roof, built with mud bricks and plastered haphazardly with cement which was falling off around the door and window frames.  She left her shoes on a sisal sack that served as the welcome mat and disappeared into the house. The boy, who was hiding behind a mango tree, noted the discrepancy between the beautiful girl and the house that spoke of hardship; he felt even guiltier for stealing her mathematical set.  As he was about to leave, the front door opened. She came out wearing a red blouse and green skirt. She went to the chicken coop that stood close to the toilet, built with sticks and without roofing. A man’s shirt, torn at the back, and a trouser mended with patches hung on the washing line suspended between two trees in front of the house.   The girl came out of the chicken coop with a rope and started skipping, with the elegance of a seasoned ballerina, each bounce sending her small chest heaving, her skirt flapping, her head bobbing, Ta! Ta! Ta! Ta!   A few minutes later, a voice came from inside the house. Katarina! Katarina! She went in: the boy left.   On his way home he passed through the socialism rocks; the madman was sleeping. The boy made the decision to return the mathematical set to its rightful owner, and vowed not to steal again. He trembled with trepidation at the thought of Katarina having a stern father like his, who would punish her.  He was so remorseful that when he got home, he was covered in a blanket of sorrow, and he went directly to sleep with regret weighing on his eyelids.  It was only when he woke up in the middle of the night when he realized that the mathematical set was still in his possession. He was lucky that his father hadn’t checked his bag. So while everyone was sleeping, he retrieved it carefully with the help of the dim light emitted by the lantern.  From outside, it looked like other mathematical sets he had stolen before. The smell of lavender attacked his nostrils when he opened it; cut-outs of flowers and butterflies were glued to the inside of the cover. He removed a red piece of cloth and permitted his eyes to inspect each item.  He went through every item carefully: angles, half squares, rulers, pens, and pencils. At the bottom, he found a piece of paper. It was a letter penned in a beautiful cursive handwriting that belonged either to someone with a natural gift for forming letters, or someone in love. The letter was addressed to a boy by the name of James.  In the letter, the girl described James as tall and light-skinned, with thick calves and round, inquisitive eyes that were tinged with sleepiness. She watched him during recess, as he threw himself in the pursuit of creating images on paper, and because he was so engrossed in his drawing, he wouldn’t notice her.  She had spent enough time watching him draw that she had learned that he would bite his lower lip and snake his tongue over his upper lip, as if devouring the art he was fashioning with his pencil.  After reading the letter, the boy was seized with childish rage that made him want to kill this drawing boy with his own pencil and smear his work with his own blood.     V  The boy was on his way to school the following morning, the mathematical set tucked in his bag. After much thought, just as the roof of Mwembeni was rising from the horizon, he settled on a more tenable plan of returning the mathematical set.  After class, he followed the girl to her house again. She walked without looking back: she plucked some dried flowers along the way, and stuck them in her hair. On the boulders, the madman was lecturing about politics again, this time declaring that Nyerere had decided to return to the presidency.  When the girl entered the house, he walked up to the front porch, his heart somersaulting in his chest, his feet wobbly from fear. He placed the mathematical set on the welcome mat and walked away as quickly as he could without running.  In the mathematical set he had placed a letter, written in the best handwriting his hands could produce. He tried to appeal to her virtue of clemency by declaring his decision to stop stealing. And in a moment of absurdity, he revealed to her about the secret nest he had woven and placed in the bush near the school. As proof of her mercy, he asked her to write back and place her letter in the nest.   He wrote all this without revealing his identity, signing his letter as “The boy who seeks your forgiveness”.  For the following few days, he checked the empty nest three times a day, and his faith started to wane. But just before the week was over, when he was about to give up and destroy the nest, he found a letter. He didn’t open it until he reached home.  The letter was written in that handwriting he remembered. She was glad that he had given back what was not his to take in the first place. She commended him for deciding to abandon his thieving ways and used the last sentence to remind him that thieves would burn in the hellfire. He chuckled.  The boy was taken over by pure bliss. He spent the night tracing the letters with the fingers of his shaky hands, smelling and inspecting the paper as if it held more mystery than what was described in words.  And that was how the correspondence between the girl who played rede and the boy began, with the help of the nest he made that couldn’t attract birds. He would place a letter, and she would pick it up, read it, and place her response.  He told her he was Chaga; she told him she was Gogo. He told her he wanted to visit Dar es Salaam; she told him she had an aunt who lived there.  With every letter he felt closer to her; he spent many hours at night rereading her letters. He looked for lavender flowers to put inside his letters. Once, he glued dead butterflies and pigeon feathers he had collected from the backyard to it.  Apart from writing her letters, he dedicated his time to watching her being fought over by other girls who wanted her to be on their rede teams.  Her body was so flexible that she could contort her elastic waist like a belly dancer, escaping the ball by centimetres. Her dodging was so elegant that she looked like a marionette springing from the ground.   She would vault from the ground and perform a mid-air split, the ball passing beneath her, and unlike other girls whose skirts would be caught by the ball, she knew how to tame hers.  Sometimes, she would elude the fielders by ducking to the ground like a redheaded agama, and with the stamina of a tennis player she could run back and forth without her lungs giving up on her.  And when she happened to finally catch the ball, she would throw it so far that she would save up to two eliminated teammates. Since she was so good, her team would normally put her at the end.     VI  After a month of correspondence, she finally told him it was time to meet: she couldn’t keep up the pendulum of perfumed words on paper. He reluctantly agreed because he had lied to her about how he looked.  He had painted an image of a tall boy with round eyes, who liked to draw, although his hands hadn't allowed him to produce a masterpiece as of yet. He boasted that he had calves destined for football, although he didn’t play because he believed it to be a lowly destination for someone with a bright future like his.  Afraid of losing her correspondence, and her altogether, he wrote her confirming their rendezvous at the intersection of Magereza and Polisi Road on the Saturday of August 24 at ten in the morning. In that short letter, he said that he would be wearing red shoes, standing at the embankment of the small bridge at the intersection.  The boy chose that specific point because it was the place where he had the least chance of running into his father, who owned a shop on the other side of town.   The boy had also developed a fascination with intersections where four roads came together and then went their separate ways. In fact, peculiar to his way of thinking, he believed intersections were conversation points where roads sought to talk to each other about what they had carried, and when no one was around, he would lower his ear and try to listen to the murmurs of their conversations.  As the day neared, the thought of finally meeting Katarina sowed a seed of fear that manifested in tormenting waves of jitters. In that heightened state of distress, he even contemplated penning another letter cancelling their planned meetup, with a lie of sickness. However, he contemplated for too long and he ended up not writing at all.      VII  The big day came. It was Saturday. He woke up at seven in the morning. The queet-queet of the red-billed firefinch, which he normally found pleasing to his ears, didn’t assuage his anxieties that morning: he was scared.   While he was pondering about the meeting, the boy ended up drifting off. He woke up again at ten. He was late. He dressed up quickly and left without even telling his mother, who was in the kitchen, where he was going.  Sweat soiled his shirt as he jogged. He was no longer worried about not looking like the boy he had described, but of being late enough to find her gone.  When the intersection rose from the distance, he saw her; she was standing at the embankment where he was supposed to be. She was wearing a floral gown. She looked beautiful.  Just as she turned her head, she saw the boy, who was wearing his red shoes, approaching from the other side of the intersection; she squinted her eyes. She got off the embankment and studied the boy’s shoes, and when she looked back at the boy’s face, she was wearing an uncertain expression on her face.  He waved his hand like someone unsure of what he was doing when he saw she wasn’t moving. After what seemed like an eternity, she started walking toward him.  The only thing she saw was the boy’s face contorting into something that looked like horror; it was too late.  Everything happened so fast. A pool of people was gathering around a limp body lying beside a brown Land Cruiser J60. The boy couldn’t move his legs. The last thing he saw before they carried her to the back of the car was two women covering their faces with their kangas.    VIII  The following Monday morning, during the morning assembly, he was jerked back to reality when they announced that a pupil from Standard Two by the name of Katarina Masunga had passed away on Saturday, after a car accident.  His heart choked on its own blood. Everything became slower and the voices sounded distant. The news sucked the power from his limbs and he experienced a sharp blow to his gut. Years later, he would remember that feeling after a girl punched him in the stomach.  It didn’t take long for the air to be suffocated by cries of girls who knew her and those who didn’t but still cried because others were crying. Boys who had learned masculinity from their fathers lowered their heads, some trying to find out who she was in murmurs. Mwembeni was such a big school that some of the kids would remain unknown even after their graduation.  His state of denial was only allowed a few seconds of existence before being shattered by the announcing teacher holding up a framed photo of Katarina. She announced that the burial would take place that same day, at four in the afternoon, at the district cemetery. “There won’t be afternoon classes, so we can all go and pay our last respects.”  It is your fault. His guilty conscience rolled over him in endless waves in class that morning. He couldn’t go to the cemetery when school was dismissed. When his mother saw him that afternoon, she rushed to the kitchen for the first aid kit.   The skinny boy, whose mouth had taken on the taste of bile, succumbed to such a strong feverish spell that his parents had to rush him to the nearby Catholic clinic.  “He doesn’t have malaria. I can’t say where he gets such a temperature,” said the doctor who walked like a crow, and possessed a pair of tarry pupils, a pointy mouth, and a head that had a tendency to bob. He frightened the boy so much that the mere thought of seeing him had caused a miraculous recovery in the boy on previous sickly occasions. However, that day, his demeanour couldn’t heal the boy.   He prescribed him some medication to lower the fever. “Make sure that he gets enough rest and drinks a lot of water,” he said, his voice trailing behind his fluttering hospital gown as he disappeared in that crowish walk of his.  For one week, the boy didn’t go to school. The boy’s father would walk into the boy’s room and hold his small hand, barking orders to his wife like, “Make sure you slaughter that chicken for the soup. Later you should take him out so he can get some sun. Make sure he drinks enough water!”  The father’s concern filled the boy with dissonance; the boy had come to know his father as a monster who could make him sleep in the dog kennel at three in the morning if he didn’t take a shower.  It would be a week when his father finally took him to school.    IX  For weeks, the boy kept on going to her house after class. He would hide behind the mango tree, looking for someone who wasn’t there. When he closed his eyes, the front porch was transformed, and he saw her skipping rope.  Three weeks in, he got caught. He wasn’t petrified; he didn’t run. He could tell that it was her father by the smoky voice tinged with sorrow, that asked, “What are you doing here?”  Her father’s face seemed to have aged, not from years, but grief. His eyes were those of a man who cried, although he didn’t want to show it.  They stood looking at each other, and finally the man said, “You have sad eyes. Did you know Katarina?” The boy couldn’t speak, but his tears did. He crashed into the man and sobbed for the first time since Katarina’s death. Standing like two melancholy pillars, they embraced each other, joined together by their common grief.  When the boy separated himself from the man, he realized that the man was also crying. Silently. Rivulets flowed down his face.   That was the last time he went to the girl’s house. It would be many years later when he would bump into Katarina’s father on the road, dishevelled and talking to himself. Initially, the boy thought it was Ticha, but he remembered that Ticha had already passed away. When the boy finally recognized the man, he greeted him, but the man looked at the tall boy for a long time, and then walked away.   The boy’s solitude agitated his mother, but after several fruitless efforts to find its cause, she decided to leave him in peace. However, she started packing him a lunchbox; he couldn’t eat it to the delight of the dumpster. His father couldn’t be bothered by his wife’s concerns. He attributed the change in the boy to the normal growth among boys his age.  Even after her death, Katarina continued appearing in the boy’s dreams. Sometimes, she was playing rede with her friends, and other times she was running in a maze. In the last dream he had of her, she was standing at the intersection of Magereza and Polisi. She crossed the road to the side he was on, and she told him, “Let go!”  The following day, instead of going to school, he went to the cemetery in a soporific state, pulled by a power he couldn’t resist. Beneath an Australian pine tree that sang in the wind, her grave stood fresher than the rest, covered with dried hibiscuses, sunflowers, bougainvillea, yellow bells, oleander, poinsettias, and other flowers whose names he didn’t know. They all looked the same in their wilted state.  He didn’t cry. The only feeling that washed over him was that of weight being lifted off his shoulders. He knew that he would be carrying the sadness for the rest of his life; it was one with him.   He spent the morning there, noticing things about the dead he didn’t know before. The derelict place, with crosses like intersections in the air that were falling into the mouths of termites, told him that after death, one ceased to exist not just in life, but also in death. Although Katarina’s cross was new, he knew it was only a matter of time before it was taken apart by its own death.  Before he left the cemetery, the boy wrote a letter and buried it in her grave. He told her he was sorry for killing her. He apologized for not attending her funeral, and he reassured her that her grave looked beautiful, and that even the dried flowers gave it a dignified look. He recounted how it had gotten drier ever since she had gone, to the point that the dust devils had decided to come out of the fields and started walking along the road with the rest of the people. He confessed that he didn’t know what it felt like where she was, but he hoped that she was safe. He promised to visit her grave often.    X  The turning of the calendar slowly diminished his solitude; he could pass the cemetery without the stabbing in his chest that he had experienced before. Around this time, two major events happened to the boy.  The first one happened one Saturday when his father sent him to the hardware store to buy a hammer. Lost in his thoughts, the boy bumped into someone at the intersection of Magereza and Polisi. When he looked up, he saw artist’s eyes on a long face.  “James,” he called out impulsively. The stranger looked at him with curious eyes, trying to establish who he was. “Do we know each other?”  The boy said, “I don’t remember where we met, but I feel as if I know you.” The boy was honest, because at that moment, he was also trying to decipher how he knew the other boy’s name without knowing who he was.   The stranger was startled. He asked the boy whether he was friends with his young brother; the boy shook his head.   For days, the boy tried to recall where he had met the stranger in vain. When he had finally forgotten the whole thing, and when he was watching a group of girls that used to play rede with Katarina, he remembered the letter in a mathematical set.   That afternoon, he continued watching the group of girls for a long time. Then the second event happened. He got up and walked up to them. They stopped playing, and without hesitation, he asked, “Can I play with you?”  The girls surrounded the skinny boy because they were unsure if they had heard him right. The boy stood rooted with a serious countenance, his eyes moving from one girl to the next. The girls looked at each other, then at the boy, and back to each other. Never before had they ever received such an unthinkable request. From a boy.  A long time passed before anyone said anything. Then, one of the girls broke the silence.     