Not Today    We sat across each other in awkward silence for what felt like forever while he tried desperately to sort his thoughts into a sensible sentence. I sat silently across from him, absentmindedly running my hand across the menu, wishing I was anywhere but here. He had been dating my mother for about a year now, but we rarely interacted, mostly because I chose to keep my distance. I would kill for that carefully procured distance right now, but I was going to have to be civil with this man for the rest of my life, and there is no time like the present apparently. Don’t get me wrong, he’s nice enough; all of this was just a lot for me.   My father had passed away three years ago in a tragic car accident, it had all been so sudden and all at once my life was rear-ended. I’d be lying if I said I had in any way recovered from his loss. But my recovery, or lack thereof, doesn’t matter because everyone else has moved on. My friends have grown tired of the sad girl with a dead dad, and my mom found someone else and was well on her way to making a whole new family of her own. I don’t necessarily resent her for it; I want her to be happy. I’m just not entirely sure I want to be part of this brand new family of hers.   “Look Siyasamkela–” my mother’s new man said slowly before pausing, still trying to rearrange his thoughts into a sentence that wouldn’t piss me off. What he did not know was whatever he said would most probably rub me the wrong way anyway. A part of me felt somewhat sorry for him really. All he did was fall in love with a woman who had a rather sullen daughter who he had no choice but to deal with now. He would be okay though. Just a few more months, and I would be off to university, and neither one of them would have to deal with me anymore.  “I realize that this is probably a lot to take in for you.”   I let out an exasperated breath and looked up from the menu I’d preoccupied myself warily, knowing very well that he had no idea how I felt.   “I’m not trying to replace your father,” he continued, and I couldn’t help but wonder if he and my mom had rehearsed these lines together. That sentence was word-for-word how my mother had phrased it. It was hard to hear them out when what they said they weren’t doing felt exactly like they were in fact doing.   All my life, the only family I have ever known was my mom and my dad. My father’s mother had passed away long before I was born, and his father was a deadbeat. My mother, on the other hand, did not necessarily get along with her family and, after various uncomfortable interactions with them, I understood why. All we had was each other, and that was more than enough for us. We were a perfectly happy little family, and then my dad died, and in the blink of an eye, my life was changed forever. Then it was just me and my mother. And as if that wasn’t enough to try to grapple with, now I had to accept this as my new normal.   “I may not have known your dad, but from everything I’ve heard, I know he was an amazing man and father. And knowing that much, I know he’d want your mom to be happy.” He paused to rest his arms on the table and opened his mouth to continue with his well thought out speech.   But I spoke before he did, his last few words gnawing at me as I expected they would. “Why do people say that?” I asked leaning forward to look at him. I wasn’t expecting an answer. I just realized in that moment that I’d never really looked at him.   In the year I had known him, I had practiced holding a careful distance from him. When he would come over to the house, I would busy myself with something else after a brief greeting. The most time I had spent with him had been with my head buried in a book, willing myself to let the world of the characters in the book pull me away from my own. This was probably the longest amount of time I had spent with him on my own, and I found I was forced to take notice of him.   He was a tall lanky man. The only hair on his skin being his greying furrowed eyebrows as he looked back at me confused. He looked nothing like my dad. My father was tall and had a frame that indicated he had been rather athletic when he was younger, and his hair was almost always a cause for complaint from my mother, who was always telling him to cut it shorter at least. He would comply, but it would always grow right back out into the mini afro he liked within a couple of weeks. I could almost hear my mother’s exasperated laugh at his uncontrollable mass of hair. I suppose I could learn to find some strange comfort in the fact that his replacement was the furthest thing from looking like him. I could live with that.   “Why do people presume to know what a dead person would want? I mean, the only real assumption you could make about them is that maybe they didn’t want to die. You are right about one thing though. You didn’t know my dad, so knowing that much, maybe don’t assume you know what he’d want. You don’t, no one does, not anymore anyway.”   He drew away, taken aback by my words. I’d get a talking to from my mom about this later and would probably be forced to apologize, but I’m not sorry, not about this. I am just so tired of people assuming what he would want, especially people who did not know him. I knew my father, I loved my father, but even I couldn’t begin to say what he would want. I know if he had some kind of choice he would want to be here with me and my mother, enjoying life’s simple pleasures, but he had no say in the matter. Like, he would never have a say in this either. He was dead, and who were we to even begin to presume what the dead would or wouldn’t want.   That said, I was suddenly in no mood to stomach any more of this, and so I got up from my seat and excused myself from our table, not waiting for his response as I walked away and headed out to the balcony smoking area of the restaurant. There were only a handful of people out on the balcony, probably due to the surprisingly cold weather we had been having despite it being the middle of January, which had always been rather warm around here. I could distinctly remember a couple of warm weeks in early January last year before school had opened. I had spent most of those days by our pool that summer, enjoying the feel of the sun on my skin and immersing myself in the cool water in a futile attempt to drown everything around me out.   I smiled slightly at a memory where one such immersion attempt had been so rudely interrupted. I quickly shook my head, refusing to let those memories resurface. I saved those memories for when I was on my own in my room. Those memories and moments were ours, just between the two of us, and every now and again, I wondered if he thought about it when he looked at me. I would like to think that he does. Those memories did not belong here, and so instead, I just stood there leaning against the balcony railing watching as cars and people went by below, refusing to let my mind wonder back to those memories.   No, right now, I wanted to be angry and sullen. I couldn’t do that when I thought about him or what we had shared. Right now, I just needed to feel what I was feeling. I don’t know how long I stood there just watching as people around the small part of town I could see from here went about their lives. Everyone was doing something, moving, laughing, talking loudly, and just living their lives, and here I was just watching as everyone else went about their lives. If that isn’t the perfect metaphor for my life, I don’t really know what is. It felt as if someone had pressed the pause button on my life since my father had passed away and I was still desperately trying to find the remote. I sighed and turned in the direction of the sound of a door opening at the other end of the balcony, followed quickly by a familiar booming voice calling out my name.  “Sam?!” Lunga called as he came towards me, his arms raised triumphantly as he strode more confidently towards me. “I thought that was you,” he said with a smile as he opened his arms to envelope me in a hug. I smiled and wrapped my arms around his neck as he wrapped his arms around my waist, enveloping me in his warmth. His hugs never failed to make me feel just a little bit better.   Lunga was one of the few people who could still tolerate me, and I was more than grateful he did. I do not know what I would’ve done without him really. “What are you doing here?” I asked peering over his shoulder to see if I could spot his parents and his twin brother, Khaya, at one of the tables in the restaurant.   “It’s a public place Sam, anyone can come here.”   I rolled my eyes and shoved him playfully. He barely moved. All I did was awkwardly push at muscle.   “I was here with the team, for morale, at least that’s what coach said,” he said, looking back into the restaurant to wave his teammates off. I just caught a glance of them leave the restaurant as he did. He turned back to me, looking down at me with a warm smile before he continued.   “I saw your mom, and I’m assuming her boyfriend’s son and the aforementioned boyfriend when we were getting up to leave. Although I did have my eye on this really familiar girl staring out into the abyss before I saw them, which only confirmed my suspicion that it was none other than my long lost next door neighbor and friend, Sam,” he said smiling proudly at his deduction skills.   I looked back at the table I had left a few minutes ago. I could now make out three heads at the table. My mom had made up a flimsy excuse about going to get a few things at Pick ’n Pay to give her new fiancée and I a moment to talk, which had obviously not turned out as well as she had hoped. And Sbusiso, my future stepbrother, was almost always famously late. In his defense, he was coming down from his mom’s place in East London to make it to this makeshift family lunch.   “Well done, Sherlock,” I said with a weak laugh before flopping down at one of the tables in the smoking area.   “Are you okay?” Lunga asked kneeling down so we were eye level. I smiled weakly at him, grateful that he was here so I’d have someone to talk to. I could always talk to Lunga. He’d gotten me through a really rough patch after my dad died and I kind of leaned on him a lot since then.   We had always been good friends, him and I, although people always associated me more with Khaya than Lunga. I suppose that made sense seeing as Khaya and I were almost always seen together, especially at public gatherings. The thing with the Nqaba twins was there were not a lot of people who were friends with both of them. So on the odd chance anyone saw me with Lunga, they didn’t much assume anything of it, which I was actually kind of grateful for. Khaya was also a good friend of mine, but I had slowly learnt he was not a fan of having anything in common with his brother, which oddly enough included me. I didn’t have the energy for that conversation, so I just let him be, and Lunga kept enough of a distance from his brother that I doubted I was ever a topic of conversation. I know it’s silly, but we were all great friends once, and despite the rift between the two of them, they were still two of my best friends and selfishly enough I needed both of my friends right now.   “You don’t miss anything do you?” I asked, massaging the back of my neck.  He shook his head in response. “Not when it comes to you,” He said softly, as he reached up to move a strand of my braid away from my face.   “They’re getting married,” I muttered after a few moments silence, and his face fell.   “Oh Sam, I’m so sorry.”   I couldn’t help but chuckle a little. I leaned in until my forehead was touching his. “I think the correct reply to that statement is congratulations,” I whispered.   He laughed and pulled away slightly to meet my eyes. “Well, I’ve never been known for saying the right thing,” he said raising his eyebrow thoughtfully.   “You always say the right thing,” I said softly.   “I doubt that.” His eyes were searching mine while I stared back into his brown eyes, wondering what it was he searched for when he did that.   “Um… hey,” a tentative voice called, breaking our trance. Sbusiso stood by the door looking at us, his expression quizzical.   I sat up straight, Lunga didn’t move a muscle, and I could still feel his eyes on me as I turned to speak to Sbu.   “Hey, did they send you to get me?”   Sbu shook his head, taking a reluctant step towards us. “No, we were about to order, figured we’d get you a takeaway. So what will it be?”   I smiled at my future stepbrother. I rarely ever saw him. He was in his third year at the University of Johannesburg, and only came home about three times a year. He always made sure to drop by and say hi when he did. I knew him better than I did his dad. Him I actually like. He looked a lot like his dad, except he had a lot more hair. I have never seen pictures of his father when he was younger, but I think Sbusiso was as close a representation of his father in his younger years as I would see.   “Buffalo wings, ribs with chips, and no onion rings. And do you think you could get me a bar one milkshake in those little takeaway cups?” Both he and Lunga chuckled. I looked from one to the other, then decided I didn’t care if I had missed the joke.   “Got it,” Sbu said as he turned to leave. He stopped and turned on his heels. “I don’t know what happened before I got here, none of my business really, but if you need a ride back home, I can drive you back.”   I opened my mouth to say something, unsure if I was in any rush to go home, when Lunga pushed himself off the floor and spoke as he brushed some dirt off the knees of his pants. “I’ll walk her home,” he said looking at me reassuringly, somehow understanding my hesitation.   I smiled up at him grateful. “Okay, well, I will see you when I see you and nice to see you––” he gestured towards Lunga, his eyebrows furrowed in a feigned attempt to recall his name. “Which one are you again?” he asked, a playful grin spreading across his face.   Lunga rolled his eyes. “Come on man. We look nothing alike.”   To this Sbu shrugged and reached for the door. “I can’t be blamed for that. The moment I hear twin I start seeing double even if the supposed doppelgangers don’t even look related.”   I couldn’t help but laugh. I had required physical evidence in the form of a birth certificate before believing Lunga and Khaya were twins. They looked nothing alike. The only traits they shared were their height and their dimples. Other than that, they didn’t even look related.   “Well get home safe, and Sam if you want to talk about all of this, you have my number.” With that he turned and left to go back to our table with my mom and his dad.   “I kind of like him,” Lunga said with a shrug.   “Yeah I do too.”   “On the bright side, at least you got to pick your brother. I would give anything to pick my brother, anyone other than Khaya would be great,” he said, his tone teasing, but there was a hint of seriousness in his voice though.   “Be careful what you wish for. It could get a whole lot worse than Khaya,” I said with a laugh as he sat down across from me at the table. “I highly doubt that,” he said shaking his head.   “Oh? You don’t know that. You could have a psychotic homicidal maniac as a brother.” His laugh came out as a loud roar. I couldn’t help but join in.   “I still don’t get why you two don’t like each other,” I said after our laughing slowly started to subside. I wondered if this time he’d come clean about why he and his brother never saw eye to eye. They were competitive when we were younger. They still were, I suppose. Nowadays they tolerated each other to an extent. I couldn’t remember the last time I’d hung out with both of them at the same time in the same place.   “Of course you don’t,” he said, an amused expression playing across his face. “You want ice cream?” he asked, changing the subject as he often did when our conversations seemed to circle the topic of him and his brother. I shrugged with a smile, knowing I wouldn’t get any answers today. I was never one to turn down ice cream, and he knew that.  It felt like we’d been sitting there for hours eating ice cream outside in fifteen-degree weather as we talked about everything and yet nothing. He was good at letting me skate around issues until I was ready to really talk. He had a rare patience with me, the kind of patience I really needed and right now could only really find with him.   I could remember him sliding down to sit next to me on the carpeted floor of my parent’s room the day of my father’s funeral. Neither one of us said a word. We just sat there our hands intertwined until I curled myself into his arms and let the tears that I had refused to shed stream silently down my cheeks. I had made it a point to not cry in front of anyone other than my mother since my father had passed away, out of pure stubbornness really, but seeing him in that coffin, still and unmoving, had done me in. I had been a zombie the rest of that day. My father’s funeral was a blur really. I couldn’t even remember how I had gotten to my parents’ room. I could vaguely remember people trying to talk to me and offer their condolences. I had somehow made my way to my parents’ room and the next thing I knew, I was sitting there with Lunga and I cried and he just held me and let me cry. I didn’t know how much I needed that until right then. I couldn’t help but love him for that, for his unwavering patience with me. I don’t know if I deserve it but I am beyond grateful for him.   It was when I watched my mother and her new family leave the restaurant with little more than a glance in my direction that I realized I didn’t want to skate around the issue anymore. I’m angry, at everyone and I hate myself for it. I’m angry at my mom for moving on because I don’t know how to. I’m angry at my future stepdad for no reason in particular actually. I’m angry at my dad for dying of all things. And the thing is, I have no right to be angry at anyone, least of all my mom. She doesn’t deserve that. But knowing that doesn’t make me any less angry; if anything it makes me angrier.   We were on our way home, the sun beginning to set behind us when I finally spoke up about my mom and her engagement, having stayed carefully off that topic during our time together.   “You know I feel like a piece of shit for being mad at her,” I said softly, shoving my hands into my jacket pockets as a light breeze began to pick up.   “You’re allowed to be upset about this Sam,” Lunga said tenderly.   I stopped walking, trying to arrange my thoughts before I spoke. “I want her to be happy. I’m not so selfish that I don’t want that for her. It’s just that after my dad died, all I had was my mom. At least we could mourn and remember him together. But now she’s moving on, and I’m still stuck in place.” I paused taking a deep breath as I let my own words sink in.   “I’ve never felt more alone,” I said softly, my voice barely above a whisper. A part of me was hoping he wouldn’t hear that part, but it wasn’t like Lunga to miss anything.   He reached out towards me, taking my hand in his. “You’re not alone Sam. I can’t pretend to know what you’re going through, but I’m sure your mom still hurts over your dad just as much as you do. And even if she isn’t, you aren’t alone. I need you to remember that,” he cupped my face in his hands, his eyes meeting mine intently. “I will always be here for you Sam, always.” He drew me into his arms in a warm embrace. He smelt like freshly mowed grass and the earth on a rainy day. He felt like home. “Even as just a consolation prize,” he whispered as his lips pressed against my forehead softly.   I laughed and looked up at him. “You are quite the consolation prize,” I joked unable to stop myself from smiling back at him. One of my favorite things about Lunga was his smile. He was the epitome of tall, dark and handsome, with skin the color of dark chocolate and light brown eyes. Even with the obvious good looks, my favorite thing about him was still his smile. His smile was unbearably infectious. Seeing him smile never failed to make me smile.   “I told you, you always say the right thing,” I said smiling up at him, profoundly grateful for him.   “I mean it,” he said caressing my cheek softly.   “Well then in that case,” I said straightening up proudly, my eyes meeting his kind gaze, “Ditto.”  It was dark out when I finally got back home. I had hoped my mother would be in her room, so I could grab my food and go hide out in my own room. Unfortunately I opened the backdoor and walked into the kitchen to find my mother standing by the sink, her arms folded across her chest. I sighed, already exasperated before she’d even uttered a word.   “Would you care to explain yourself?” she said, her voice laced with as much indignation as was openly displayed on my face. My father used to say I got my stubbornness from my mother. When we felt we were right, neither one of us much liked backing off. Not having him as a buffer had made agreeing on anything a mission between us. She’d had to learn to let more things slide with me lately though. I certainly haven’t made any of this easier for her.   “I didn’t appreciate what he said,” I said, heading to the microwave knowing she’d most likely put my food in there, and just as expected there it was, already dished out no less. I couldn’t help but smile. Even when she was annoyed with me, she couldn’t help but be thoughtful.   “So you got up and left?” I turned to face her, now emulating her stance and folding my arms across my chest defensively.   “You say that like it’s a bad thing, trust me mom the alternative was a whole lot worse.”   She gritted her teeth and took a deep breath. She looked up at the ceiling, taking a moment before speaking. “The whole point of that lunch was for you two to at least find some common ground. You leaving before lunch even began didn’t help. What did he even say to you anyway?”   My eyebrows furrowed as I momentarily wondered why he didn’t tell her. I shrugged, quickly reaching the conclusion that he’d done that either to save face or get in my good graces. Whichever it was, it was done in his own self-interest, and I didn’t care for it.   “Well if he didn’t tell you, I most certainly won’t.”   I gasped dramatically, my eyes widening as I did. “And look at that we now have common ground. There, problem solved.”   She was not impressed by my feigned problem-solving skills.   “This is no time for sarcasm,” she said sternly. I shrugged, turning to reheat my food. “I’m trying to have a conversation with you Sam.”   “I don’t know what you want me to say mom,” I said softly, unable to maintain my façade of nonchalance. Beneath the snarky comments and exasperation, I was honestly just tired of everything. I was tired of being sad. I was tired of feeling pressured to move on at the same pace as everyone else was, tired of missing my dad and feeling distant from my mom. I’m tired of having to put on a brave face for everyone and pretending I’m fine, but more than anything, I’m just tired of being tired.   “I just want us to talk.” She took a tentative step towards me.   “About what mom? You’re getting married. What do you want me to say? Congratulations? I’m happy for you?”   She no longer looked annoyed. That was now replaced with a pained expression, and she almost looked like she might be on the verge of tears. I had only ever seen my mother cry a total of four times. The first was at her mother’s funeral, the second was at her and dad’s vow renewal, the third was when she heard my father had died, and the last time I’d seen her cry was at his grave the day of his funeral. I wondered if I would be the reason for the fifth time. I really hope it wouldn’t be. She took another breath, fighting back tears. I am angry, but the last thing I want is to make her cry. This isn’t on her. It’s on me, and God knows she’s carried enough for the both of us over the past three years.   “I just don’t want you to think I’m betraying you or your father’s memory.”   I closed the gap between us and took her hand. “You aren’t betraying anyone,” I said reassuringly. “You’re allowed to move on mom. What you can’t do is expect me to move on at the same pace. I can’t just suddenly be happy about this whole new family and it’s not fair of you or anyone else to expect that of me.”   She shook her head in protest. “That’s not what I’m doing.”   I shrugged and opened the microwave, hoping I didn’t have to reheat my food again. “That’s kind of how it feels. I just need time mom. I’ll get over it,” I said with a faint smile.   “I didn’t know you felt that way,” she said apologetically.   “Well, in your defense, I rarely talk about how I feel,” I said with a chuckle. I had gotten oddly good at keeping my thoughts and feelings to myself.   My mother, however, did not seem as amused by my confession as I was. In fact, she seemed rather dejected by my words. “I wish you would,” she whispered, her tone despondent.   I don’t think I really know how to express my feelings anymore. In the past couple of years, it’s become easier to pretend like I was okay. I remember how my state of grief worried my mother, how much she hated seeing me in pain. I watched as she struggled with her grief and tried to deal with mine as well. She was trying to carry my pain and hers, and it was eating her up inside. So I tried to hide my pain, hoping it would help her, and I had almost convinced myself that maybe it would help me, which was a delusional thought of course. Burying my feelings had not helped me at all and it obviously had not helped my mother. Even so, it was just easier to keep up the façade with everyone, but I never really dealt with my father’s death. I still carry around this weight with a smile plastered on my face, and maybe one day I’ll deal with it and move on with my life like everyone else has, but not today. No, today I would go back to my room, devour my food, watch a movie, and try my best not to cry myself to sleep. And tomorrow I’d go to school, pretend to listen during class, talk and maybe laugh with my friends, and just try to get through another week. And one day in the not so distant future, maybe I will finally be okay, but that day most definitely is not today.   