The Night the Sky Rained Fire    I should have listened to papa. If I had, I would be home and not here with Nshuti watching as the streets where we grew up burn before us.   I ran outside with my boyfriend, watching as the large plume of smoke with a fiery heart hurtled towards the village. It smacked into a building a few streets away, its shockwave rattling the building we were in so much I could feel the ground tremble underneath my feet. Nshuti disappeared outside to see what had happened. He, like me, thought it was the rebel forces testing their weapons, but then we heard it.   Gunshots—filling the air, sounding like corn over a fire. The shots continued and were soon accompanied by screams and cries that broke out over the village. I could barely see from where I stood outside. The fire from the sky had birthed some buildings in its kind, filling the air with nasty dark soot that made seeing more than a few feet in front of us impossible.  “Keza!”  I turned to see my boyfriend, Nshuti, with a panicked look on his face. The smoke had gotten to his clothes, turning them black, but what caught my attention was the blood on his face.  “Nshuti! What happened?”  “It’s okay, I’m alright. It’s the president.”  “What?” I asked, confused as to what he meant.  “His plane was shot down. I don't know who did it, but that was the plane’s engine which hit Y’e y’lgihugu center. The Hutus have risen up. They’re coming for us all.”  I felt the bile in my stomach leap to my tongue, making me instantly nauseated. If I had been home with my family, then maybe I would be safe. But here I was, far away from town, against my father’s wishes with Nshuti. I turned to see him pack a few things into a small bag. He opened his drawer to find his plastic identity card. Tutsi, just like me. We knew there was bad blood, we knew something evil was on its way, but now, with what had just begun, those of us here in the village would be hunted down.  “What happened?”  “Mama Geraldine. She was next to me when someone, I didn’t see his face… God, I can’t… someone shot her. We have to go Keza, grab your things. We will be safe in town. We’ll go to my brother’s place and pass the night. The army might come tomorrow and clear up things. But we need to leave, tonight.”  I grabbed my purse and put on my shoes; I hadn’t come with much. It was one night with my boyfriend, and I could always leave a change of clothes at his place. I found a loose pair of jeans in his closet, which I almost jumped both feet into before I secured it with a belt. As I put on my top, there was a loud banging at the door. Nshuti pulled me behind him quickly, before pulling off a curtain rod and walking to the door.   “Who is it?”  “Nshuti, I know you’re in there.” I heard the man spit “Inyenzi. Open up and see who it is.”  “Dammit,” Nshuti whispered, “It’s Bogarde. We have to leave out the back. Hurry now.”  He took my hand and pulled me along as we rushed for the backyard. The only entrance would be through the door, which held back the man who was looking to hurt him. Nshuti pulled up a few empty crates and stacked them on each other. I could hear Bogarde hitting the door, trying to break it down. Nhusti used the curtain rod to break off the glass shards cemented into the top of the fence to discourage thieves. It tumbled off as he climbed over. I followed suit as he helped me over the fence. It took us to a small alley between a shop and the house. Completely covered by the darkness, we moved down the alley, which ran parallel to the main roads and was normally inaccessible, except to the shop owners.   “We have to stay off the roads. Come on, hurry.”  We cut through back streets and went through homes when possible, trying to avoid the shooting we could hear happening on the roads. We spotted a roadblock set up with men carrying guns. The bubble was finally at its end and the rage they felt had burst. I saw the bodies of two people on the ground, the fires nearly illuminating their faces temporarily as I saw the bullet holes in their heads.   “Keza, keep moving!”  “They’re dead. God! Nshu, they’re dead.”  “And if we don’t keep moving, we will be too—”   The sound of a car engine caught his attention as it pulled out of the driveway of a small house. The driver of the car turned it around so fast it seemed it would ram off the dirt road as he was trying to drive out of the village. Nshuti jumped in front of the car, waving his hands. “Help us! Please! We are one! No, stop!”  The black Volkswagen pulled to a stop merely inches from his feet, still roaring to go, even with the man in front of it. I heard the sound of feet smacking against concrete behind me and turned to look. Further down the road, two men with burning tree branches and a machete were running, heading towards us. The door of the Volkswagen swung open and we jumped in. The driver hit the pedal and the car jerked into motion before the people after us could reach us. The car swerved side to side as the sounds of bullets whipped past us. Nshuti pulled my head down behind the seat as I screamed.   “Nshuti! In the glove box!” the driver called out.   Nshuti reached across, between the front seats and opened the glove box packed with ammunition. A grenade sat proudly in the center of the metal and copper mass, knowingly staring at us. Nshuti grabbed it and pulled the pin before he stuck his head and arm out the window and threw it as far back as he could. I couldn’t see if the explosion hit the men chasing after us, but the shootings stopped right after the sound reached my ears.   “Thank you, Mr Paul. I almost didn’t even see you. Thank you sir.”  “It’s alright Nshuti. Who is this with you?”  He looked back at me, seeing the fear etched into my face. He pulled me into a hug there in the backseat, stroking my hair. “She is the woman I intend to marry, sir. This is Keza.”  “Is she Tutsi?”  “Yes sir, I am.”  “Then you better come with us. Where is your family, Keza?”  “They’re in the city. I have to get to them. What part are you heading to?” I asked.   “The city? I’m leaving Rwanda tonight! My Brother!... How are you doing? No, I’m leaving tonight. You should both come with me. It will be safer.”  “The country? Isn’t it too early for that?” Nshuti asked, looking down the road.  “No. This is it Nshuti. The end is here. The president’s plane was shot down. Everything is about to descend into total chaos. If you don’t leave now, you might not be able to leave Rwanda ever again. This is it.”  “What about my family? My father and brothers?” I asked.  “You stand a better chance away from here. Everyone does. If your father knows any better, he will leave Rwanda with them tonight. Where is your mother?” Mr Paul asked, taking a left turn as we reached the final intersection that went off the country roads and connected to the city.  “She’s late,” Nshuti answered before I could speak. He paused, realizing he was a little too plain, and squeezed my hand before continuing. “Mr Paul, do we all have to leave? This is our home too! The government will protect us.”  Mr Paul shook his head like someone who knew and had seen the reality for what it was. “This is anarchy, boy; even the government is not safe.” We could see the city now, small clouds of smoke rose up here and there, blocking out the moon. He stopped the car a little further down the road, but kept the engine running.  “This is as far as I can go. I know you’re worried about your family, but this decision here is the biggest you might ever have to make. Leave with me, both of you, and once it is all settled, we’ll find your family.”  A gunshot rang out over the city. Papa was all alone with my baby brothers, Hakim and Isidore. They were too young to take care of themselves. They would be so scared without me, and having only papa to keep them safe tugged at my conscience. If only I was home as he had wanted. If only I had listened to him. I had to find him.  “I have to find my father. Mr Paul, I cannot go with you. Maybe this whole thing will be done by morning.”  “Well then. Best of luck to you.”   “Thank you.” I wrapped my hands around Nshuti, dragging his body into mine and burying my face in his shoulder to stop the tears. “Go with him, Nshuti.”  “Are you crazy? I’m coming with you.”  “But it’s dangerous.”  “Which is why I’m coming. Thank you, Mr Paul, maybe we will meet again after all of this is over.”  Mr. Paul picked up a small handgun from the front of his car and handed it over to Nshuti. “Can you use this? If no, you’ll have to learn fast.”  He did not wait for Nshuti's answer before he turned his eyes back on the road—scouring for his path ahead and away from it all. Nshuti and I leapt out of the vehicle, ducking our heads as yet another shot signaled from afar the choice I had made.  The car sped off on the freeway, joined by a few other vehicles fleeing the city. Nshuti and I watched as he disappeared in moments from our view. We both knew the city well, as we had grown up here. But with the chaos everywhere, it would be a lot more difficult to navigate. My house was on the far side of town, and it would take the entire night to get there on foot, but I didn’t care.  Nshuti led me cautiously through the streets, constantly watching out for the gunfire and the Hutu men walking around with clubs, machetes and guns. The death of the president was the catalyst they needed to take up arms and show how they truly felt about us. As we walked past an apartment building, the sounds of struggle—Tutsi voices—played partners to war chants coming from the rooms. Someone was thrown over the balcony and fell three floors to what was certainly their death. The sound of the body hitting the floor sickened my stomach and caused us to hurry. We took a turn, hoping to take a slightly shorter route to my home.  “Hey! You there! Stop!”  We froze. Nshuti slowly slipped the gun around his waist and hid it with his shirt. We both turned around slowly to face the man who had called. He was huge with bulging muscles and a club in his hand. It was only one guy, but he was menacing enough to scare Nshuti and I into silence. He approached us, power in every step as he scanned our faces. Thankfully, the view wasn’t entirely a good one in the dark night.   “Mwene Data! My brother. Umeze ute?” Nshuti asked, walking forwards to meet the man before he could reach us.   “Inyenzi!” he spat. “I am no brother to a cockroach! Where is your identity card?”  “Ah, calm down. It’s me, Nshuti. This is my sister, you know me and my mother. Mama Nyeze. I have sold her food to you once. We are just trying to get home, I don’t have it on me.”  “Mama Nyeze is dead.” The man spoke, controlled aggression in his voice. He was obviously on some sort of drug. “She sympathized with those cockroaches. You might too.”  “No, nooo, wanjye, I do not. We’re all on the same side.”  He walked past my boyfriend, locking eyes with me. I shuddered as I realized that he could probably snap my neck in one blow. The club in his hand was bloody from previous use; he had probably already murdered someone tonight and was looking for more. The drug he was on was innocent blood, and he had probably become addicted. He smelled my hair before he spoke. “Why are you outside?”  “We went to my…”  “Not you!” He cut back at Nshuti. “Let the girl speak.”  I felt my lips fail me, I wanted this to be over as soon as possible. If I spoke, he would probably be able to tell that I was Tutsi the moment I spoke. I didn’t have the confidence that Nshuti had. I would mess everything up. Fear grabbed me by the shoulders as I stared at him, words refusing to form.  “Look, she’s young and scared. That’s why…”  I flinched as his hand swung, missing my face by inches. But then I realized that he wasn’t aiming for me. The back of his palm connected with Nshuti’s face, knocking him back. He landed on the street, the gun clattering out in front of us. The Hutu man exchanged glances with Nshuti before they both rushed at the gun on the floor. Nshuti grabbed it, but the man knocked it out of his grip, before dragging him to his knees.  Nshuti punched the man in the belly as hard as he could, but it had little to no effect as he responded with his right fist to Nshuti’s face. I watched in horror as he picked up his club, heaved it above his head to strike Nshuti. It missed by mere centimeters, bouncing off the road. He lifted it again, pinning down his target with a knee, ready to bash his skull in. A loud bang echoed through the streets as the man paused, almost frozen in his stance with the club over his head. He coughed, spitting blood over Nshuti. I held the gun in my hands, watching the hole I had created in the man’s back expand.  He fell to the ground, dead.  “Nshuti! Nshu… are you?”  He pushed the man’s body away as he replied from underneath him. “I’m fine. I’m fine.”    The attacks went on into the night, with the sounds of death all around us. The roads had become too dangerous to walk through, so we kept to compounds, walking through those which we could or going around their fences. We saw a woman run out her home; she carried a baby in her arms as she ran past us. Nshuti and I took to our heels as we saw the mob that was chasing her. We ran back the way we had come, crisscrossing the buildings in the dark, the chants of the murderous men not far behind.   Nshuti pulled me into a small alcove, concealed from the street by a small bush. We watched as the woman got into a car parked on the sidewalk. She lowered the seat and clutched onto her baby, covering its mouth with her hands. The Hutu men ran into view, passing us. But the woman was not so lucky.  We watched in horror for the next hour as they set the car ablaze with the woman and her baby in it. Through the thick bushes, I felt her eyes on me as the flames licked at her flesh, tearing her soul from her body. The cries of the baby brought Nshuti and I to tears as we held onto each other in the dark there, sparsely illuminated by the flames that procured the death of another. We were literally inches from death.  I didn’t know when I fell asleep. I woke up the next morning with Nshuti cradling my body by the wall of the alcove. We stayed there all night as the men camped around the fire till the morning. There were fewer men by morning, but they were close by, as Nshuti had heard them talking. As the men nodded off, tired after their night of prolonged savagery and murdering, we slipped past into the nearest compound.  “Who’s there!” a man sitting outside on his porch spoke up when he saw us. “Stop there! Stop or I’ll shoot!”  We threw both hands in the air instinctively, before turning to see the man. He shut his gate before aiming his gun at us again. He was just as old as my father, but somehow he looked even more stressed. The glasses that sat on the bridge of his nose shook as he addressed us in a voice that threatened to break our spirits.  “Are you Hutu?”  “Yes,” we chorused, lying.  “Then where is your ID! Where is it?”  “Sir, we aren’t coming from home, we don’t have it on us.”  “So why should I believe you then? You’re Tutsi and that’s a problem for me.” He pulled at his gun and it made a sound that stressed his intent, and pointed it at Nshuti’s head, grimacing. “Hutu… or Tutsi.”  Nshuti grabbed my hand, squeezing it softly as he let out a breath with his reply on it. “I am a Tutsi. I am not your enemy, sir.”  The man stared at us both, eyes threatening to pull the trigger. He turned to me and pulled my face up so he could see me clearly. I didn’t know what I looked like, but I was certain my hair had come undone, and sweat, tears and soot must’ve tainted it. He let go of me and put the gun away before he spoke.  “You remind me of my daughter. That’s why I will spare you cockroaches. Now get out of my house.”  Nshuti mumbled a thank you as we rushed out. At the intersection, we spotted a truck which carried away bodies that had been dumped out on the streets. The entire bucket of the truck was full of bodies, all of them lifeless. Each bearing a hole, a gape, missing the head, or sprawled out grotesquely with the head pummeled in. One of them wore a blue shirt which eerily resembled one which Hakim was wearing the last time I saw him. My heart broke. I knew it wasn’t him; the face it still had made me see that it was a different person, but what was to say that he and my father had survived the night?  “Nshuti, I have an idea. Those trucks won’t be disturbed by the roadblocks. We can use them to get across town.”  “How?”  It was nasty, but we did it. My hands wouldn’t stop shaking as we smeared ourselves in blood abundant from bodies nearby, and we lay on the road as the trucks approached. Our bodies were picked up and thrown onto the pile. The smell of death and onset of decay hung in the air as some of the bodies had begun to rot already. My boyfriend beckoned me to keep my eyes open, so we would know where we were. But I didn’t want to; I couldn’t bear to see the bodies all around me. Young and old, man and woman. Nobody was spared. The morning had brought a wave of silence over Rwanda that chilled me to the bone.  The killings had gone on everywhere, as the radio on the truck gave updates, we realized that high profile Tutsis had also been targeted and killed, and the army had taken up arms, as names and addresses were handed out to them, people who were to be executed. Their only crime, being born a Tutsi. I could never truly understand the truth behind the killings or the reasons as to why they were done by these people.  The truck got to the final stop that was closest to my home. Nshuti and I leapt off as the vehicle stopped for another pick-up. I ran as I could see my home already. The surrounding buildings looked as though they were hit by a hurricane. Their gates left open and windows and doors broken. As I got to mine, I saw that our gate had been ripped off its hinges, and our house was nothing but a charred mass of black burnt wood and cinderblocks.  “Keza,” Nshuti called out to me from behind.  I couldn’t bear it. The tears came again, as a river, unstoppable and unrelenting. I let a cry escape my lungs as nothing else mattered. I had held in my fears for so long, but I couldn’t anymore. I couldn’t understand how I had gone from a normal girl to killing a man in one night and then, realize that I’ve lost my home. My heart felt weak, but it was beating so quickly, I could hear it in my ears.  “Keza!”  The voice was different.  I turned and next to Nshuti stood the one thing that had given me hope. My father.  I held him, somehow crying even more as I wondered if I would have any more tears after this. He hugged me, trying to console me. I quickly realized that he has alone.  “Papa where are they? Where is Hakim and Isadore?”  “They’re fine. Your brothers are fine. The church at Elitche ete is a safe space. The priest there has assured us our safety. I got them there last night. I came here to see if there was anything we could salvage and I found you. God, I thought you were dead. Ha, my love, don’t ever leave me again.”  “I’m sorry, papa, I’m so sorry.”  “It’s alright. We have to go. Come and join your brothers.” I watched as he turned to Nshuti, who stood off by the side. “Is this him? Your boyfriend?”  I was put off by the question as I realized that this was the first time they were meeting. Papa took my silence for a yes and walked over to him, staring him down. Nshuti held his ground, but there was still an inkling of fear in his eyes as he watched the older man walk up to him, raising his hand.  “Thank you for bringing back my daughter. Now, let’s go.”  We got back into the streets as the midday sun hit its high, hammering away on the country. We were safer this time, as my father led us through a path that he and a group of other Tutsis who had escaped last night took. It ran through farmlands which separated Tutsis homes, allowing us to slip through unnoticed, away from the major populous.  As we approached the church, my father narrated how they had heard the explosions, how he acted quickly, taking my brothers to the path as fast as possible. He had spoken with the priest beforehand, a Hutu man who had valued life above ethnicity and promised his church would be a sanctuary. He had spent the night trying to find Tutsis he could save and get to the church. The place was packed by morning.  We heard the screams before we saw the church, or whatever was left of it. The entire right section of the building was knocked over by a huge caterpillar. Men were running around, swinging machetes at people running away. Some were walking through the rubble, stabbing the people trapped underneath or smacking their skulls open with clubs or rocks. I was frozen in place, like a deer before the headlights of a car, unable to comprehend the horrors before me.  Papa took off, running for the church. He jumped straight at a man which a machete, tackling him down to the floor with a single strike. He punched the man right across the face, before picking up a small rock and smacking it against the man’s temple. The man fell unconscious instantly. I watched as the man who had birthed me, turn into a raged animal as he picked up the man’s machete and turned to the nearest Hutu man.  Nshuti took off after him, firing a shot from the gun he had at a man who blindsided my father, grabbing him from behind. It was chaos. Hakim and Isodore were nowhere to be seen as I looked around, seeing bodies that were mangled under the heaps of concrete that had fallen on them. I rushed through the ruins of the church, scanning and searching the faces of everyone I could see.  “Cockroach!” a man spat at me. But I didn’t care, I felt no fear. I only wanted death for the men who had done such evil.  “Fuck you!”  He held a club in his hand, and was fairly larger than me. I picked up a jagged piece of glass, holding the sharp end up. I felt it cut into my fingers, but that would pale in comparison to the pain I would feel if this man got to me. I wasn’t just fighting for justice; I was fighting for my life. Gunshot noises came in from outside, startling me. The man saw his chance and took it, rushing at me. I stepped backwards, missing the swinging blow from the club by inches. He rushed forwards again, jabbing the staff at me. It struck my stomach, knocking me to the floor.  He stepped forward, lifting the weapon up to strike, but I was faster, slicing at his shin. He howled in pain, hesitating, which gave me another opening. I drove the glass shard into his thigh, causing him to drop the club and fall to the ground, clutching his leg. Blood spilt across my face as he writhed in pain on the ground.  I picked up his club and did to the man what he had intended to do to me. I felt no pain or anger or regret. He deserved it, just like everyone else who had decided to murder my people. I turned to see my father stumble in, with Nshuti carrying him with one arm, dragging him into the church. There were two bloodied holes in his chest, the red substance spreading all over.  “Papa, papa! No nooo. Nshuti, what is this? What…”  Nshuti placed him on the ground at his request. I reached for my father, trying to cover up the wounds and stop the bleeding, but I knew, deep down, that it was of no use. He looked up at me and smiled. “My daughter, my heart. I am proud of you”  I had made him proud.   I watched as his eyes fell shut and his grip on me loosened. I felt the rage evaporate, as I couldn’t bring myself up to fight anymore. It had become too much for me. There was nothing left for me, no reason to keep on fighting. They would never stop trying to kill us, and I couldn’t fight anymore. I noticed the church grow silent, with only the occasional gunshot being fired close by.  I looked up at a hole in the wall to see the Hutu paramilitary walk into the church. They scanned the area, seeing that my father, Nshuti and I were the only ones left in the building. A small huddled mass in the corner, staring up at them, with defiance in our very existence. I couldn’t hear what they asked, but Nshuti had answered, maintaining eye contact and never faltering. Something he said got a reaction from them as they raised their guns at us.  Nshuti turned to hug me, his back to our very own firing squad, in a final effort to protect me. Right before the bullets hit, I felt him squeeze my hand one last time, and then…     