The Power of a Half-Truth     Do you ever think about the best gift you have ever received from someone? Is it a material thing? Is it love? Is it affirmation or reassurance? Or is it simply the gift of life?     Besides the gift of life, my name is the best gift that my mother has ever given me. She birthed me with a purpose, and that purpose was to bring her the joy she had been missing in her life for a long time. With that purpose, she named me with purpose too.     Ahadi: “with much promise”   Tsatsi: “Sun”     With much promise comes the sun, Ahadi Tsatsi. My mother is a beautiful woman, and by beautiful, I mean she is strong, wise and successful. She brings purpose to life in everything that she touches, and for this, I have always admired her. I always wanted to be her. There is only one thing that she lacked though. The older I grew, the more I came to realize that my suspicions were true. My mother lacks love, and by this, I do not mean she does not know how to give it; she has plenty of it to give. I mean that she does not know what it feels like to receive real love. I always made sure that my mother knew I loved her. So did my little brother, my grandmother, my grandfather, and everyone else who mattered, except my father.     I think it would break her to know this, but my mother is the very first person who taught me how to lie. For this, I am grateful because lying is a useful skill that we take with us through our everyday lives. Lies tend to protect a lot of hearts.     Even if they are little white lies, they are keeping a piece of something that someone else thinks is important together. The first time my mother lied to me, I think I was ten years old. That day she came to kiss me goodbye in the morning, and she had a very little scar on her forehead, as little as the lie she had to tell me. I asked what happened and she told me that she was so busy at work the day before. She was walking around carelessly and did not notice a wall and she walked into it. She laughed at her clumsiness and, like every other mother does, reassured me that she would be okay.     When I was fourteen, I remember a lie that was a little bit bigger. I walked into their room and found my father yelling at my mother. He quickly stopped when I walked in, and my mother took this opportunity to walk out the room with me.  I asked her why he was yelling, and she told me that he was just a little frustrated from work. It is nothing that I should worry about. Again, my mother always reassured me that I, as her child, never worried about how she was doing. That day a lot came together though. Every little white lie and half-truth she had ever told me started bringing itself together, and it broke my heart all at once. On this day, I realized that my father had been the wall that my mother had been walking into for all these years. I failed to understand how a man who loved me so much failed to love the mother of his children the same way, how a man who cared about me more than life itself could not care the same way for the person who gave him the best gift he has ever received… his children.    Once I had figured out the truth it became so hard to be angry at my mother because I knew what she thought she was protecting… my heart. I know she did not want me to grow up not believing in love and everything that came with it. The problem with lying, however, is this: as much as you think telling someone a half-truth is protecting them, every half becomes whole. Once it does, the heart breaks as a whole too, not just into little halves. I personally believe it is easier to bring yourself back together all at once and not just in little pieces because that way, something will always be missing. It’s not impossible to put a broken glass back together. With the right amount of determination, it can be done, but it will never be the same. It will never be whole and will never be as beautiful as it was before. That is what half-truths do to people; they break you and fix you until you cannot be broken or fixed anymore.    As time went by, I learnt to understand my mother’s half-truths and watched her as she started telling them to my brother too. I never understood why a woman so strong failed to leave a place that broke every bit of strength that she had, but this was not my place. I was young, and I did not understand. My curiosity got the better of me once. I asked her why she hadn’t left my father. She told me that she is okay because she had me and my little brother, her promise and her joy. She said she knew that the sun would come again just as she did when she gifted me with my name. After hearing the last half-truth, I chose to listen too. I decided never to ask her again. I learnt to live life from then onwards without asking questions I knew I did not want answers to or that I would not get truthful answers for. Like how I never asked her why the death of my father, a man who had failed to live up to his promises for so long, broke her as much as it did.     I was eighteen years old when my mother got the call that he had been involved in a fatal accident. With all the panic in her voice and her eyes, she quickly left for the hospital at two o’clock in the morning. My initial question to this situation was why he was out on a Thursday night until the early hours of the morning, and not in his home with his wife and children, but this was one of those questions I did not want an answer to. My mom walked in a few hours later, and she looked like her life had been sucked out of her chest. As she walked in, my grandmothers and aunts were behind her. No one was saying anything to me, and I kept following them, hoping to get answers to my unasked questions. They placed my mother’s mattress on the floor, and that is when I didn’t need any more answers to my unasked questions. In that moment, I knew that my father was gone and he was not coming back… for good this time.     For the next few days, I watched his family run around the house like headless chickens trying to put everything together for the funeral on Saturday, except for my mother. She was not the person I knew her to be. She was literally paralyzed and stuck on that mattress the whole week. Every time I looked into her eyes, I tried to look for a broken heart, but I could not find it. All I saw was shock, disbelief, and somewhere behind all of that, I think I saw relief too. It just was not as obvious as the other emotions. The whole family was there. Every character you could think of had arrived to send the son off. There were my aunts who sat in the kitchen every night talking about how unhappy their brother was in his marriage, and how unfortunate it is that he died before he could truly be happy, and when the gossip was running low, they would make my mother rooibos tea to drink after every few hours to ‘calm the shock’ apparently. They did this consistently until Friday night when my father’s coffin arrived. There was also the mourners who spoke about what a great man my father was, such a family man, and how unfortunate it was that he would not be able to see his kids grow up, but they did always managed to reassure my little brother and I that he was watching us from ‘a better place’.     Then there was me, his one and only daughter who had not shed a tear the entire week. I was shocked at myself to be honest, and covered up the fact that I hadn’t cried with a lie; that I was trying to be strong for my little brother and my mother, and even though I knew this was a lie, I carried on with that for the whole week. Everyone believed me, just as humans often do when they are told a lie.     Friday evening had come, and it was time for my father’s coffin to arrive. My uncles welcomed his spirit home while they said our clan names. People had arrived in numbers that night, and I saw pain in each of their eyes. I heard it in their cries. It seemed like he was a good man after all. That night, I stayed up staring at his coffin with tears rolling down my face as if they would bring my father back to life. I watched the sunrise into Saturday morning, and that is when it finally hit me that I have to really say goodbye to the first man that ever loved me. It was in this moment that I realized why my mother was as paralyzed as she was. This is the man who gave her the best gift she has ever received… her children. Although he had given her some of her most painful wounds, I do believe that there was a time that they really did love each other. Real love never really truly dies. It is just withering  as time passes by.     It was at the graveyard that I realized that his half-truths really meant a lot to the people he knew and who knew him. For some of them, his half-truths brought affection and reassurance. For others, his half-truths came in the form of material things. Whatever it was, the lies meant something to everyone who they had not broken yet. He was my father, my mother’s husband, my grandmother’s son, and my aunts’ brother. In our different ways, we loved and appreciated him. All these thoughts began to sink in when I saw his coffin being lowered into the ground. This is when I began to cry because he had done it again, he broke my heart, and this time it was because he was never coming back. How do I say goodbye to the man who taught me how I should be loved by another man, but failed to love the woman who once loved him? How do I say goodbye to a man who looked at me like I had all the stars of the universe in my eyes? How do I say goodbye to the one person who had never doubted me, even on days when I doubted myself the most? How do I say goodbye to the man who created a perfect world for me… but broke my mother’s? Do I cry at the love that I have just lost and will never get back? Or do I rejoice at the chance my mother has found to put back together the pieces of her heart that she still has left?     It was in this moment that my mother looked me in the eyes and wiped my tears away. She lifted her pinkie finger up to me as she did every time I caught her trying to hide a scar she got from walking into multiple walls. It is in this moment when our fingers locked that I realized that with this promise, the sun would come again.  