The Lost Engagement    Tanya, Sphiwe and Nyasha come on the same day. What are the odds? One in a thousand? No, they are certainly much higher than that. At least one in ten thousand. Because this feels like a conspiracy. Tanya is the first to arrive. I’m in my room listening to 90s R&B—back when music was still music—and Joe Thomas and Usher Raymond are hitting the perfect spot. I’m making my favourite meal—spaghetti and pork trotters—so this is shaping up to be one of those delectable nights. I don’t hear the knock because I have my headphones plugged in, and the music is completely transcendental. I’m quite disconnected from the real world, as they call it.     My music suddenly cuts and I’m livid because it had ascended to otherworldly levels and I am basically levitating. It’s a call from an unknown number. I angrily press the answer button and brusquely growl, “Who’s this?” There’s no response and the call is promptly terminated. I see the door opening slowly and I wonder who it could be, seeing as Tadiwa is out of town. He’s the only one in my circle who has the playfulness to pull such pranks.     She steps inside, the last person I expect to see. I can’t hide my shock and she notices it because she immediately twists her face and blurts “Yes it’s me, your cooking will burn.” I have completely forgotten about my trotters, but it doesn’t bother me that much anymore because this unexpected visitor has made me lose my appetite. I switch the gas stove off and she offers herself a seat on my couch. Typical Tanya; assertive as they come. I sit on the bed across from her and we exchange contrived pleasantries.     “I’m pregnant with your child, Tendai,” she shoots.     I look at her incredulously waiting for the part where she bursts out laughing, but she remains poker-faced and I realize things might have just got real.    I’m dumbstruck. I stay quiet for a while, taking in the gravity of the situation.    “What are you talking about? If you are indeed pregnant, why… why did you come alone?” I croak.    “Who did you want me to come with? Did you impregnate another person I should know about?” she retorts fuming.    I know better than to make this a shouting contest because I will definitely lose. Dismally.     “Okay, but…”      “But what? Are you trying to say what I think you are trying to say? Are you accusing me of sleeping around?”    “No, not that Tanya. What I mean is…”    “Cut the nonsense. If you knew how angry I am, you wouldn’t even think of saying what you are trying to say. Don’t try me,” she says authoritatively.    I realize there’s nowhere to hide, so I have to resign to fate but I’m too overwhelmed to think straight. My mum will not take this well. My Pastor will probably strip me of my position in Church. He will definitely do that. Tanya tells me that her stepdad has chased her away after discovering the pregnancy through work gossip and she has come to stay. The words feel like a pivoting left hook straight to the jaw. There are too many problems here. I know I can grow to like Tanya enough to tolerate her staying with me, but I have a girlfriend who comes here every weekend and has been relentlessly pestering me about marriage. We are engaged and the Pastor presided over the engagement ceremony. So that’s a big problem right there—an insurmountable one.     The other issue is taking Tanya in may not make sense from a financial perspective. I don’t make much money, and I’m already hamstrung from helping out with my young brother’s school fees, contributing for church projects and savings. Even if I manage to break up with my girlfriend, I will not find enough money for lobola or even damages in time. Even if we ignore the lobola thing, there’s a baby on the way, and babies are a huge expense. Now, I know I can’t chase Tanya away. She has nowhere else to go, and besides she’s too formidable to allow me to treat her like that. She would rather count rice, grain by grain than be taken for a ride. So I’m completely stuck in this. Tanya is now reclining comfortably on the bed. I let out a defeated sigh.     Sphiwe arrives at four PM. I’m shocked because she just drops an “I’m at the gate, open,” text out of nowhere, which is followed promptly by an even more bizarre one, “And don’t play games with me”     I have known Sphiwe for some time now, and she’s more of a friend, but sometimes we breach the boundaries as many do. She stays in a nearby town. We met on Twitter and our friendship grew until we decided to meet and we did. A couple of things happened and continued to happen, and she most probably came today so that they continue happening. But she couldn’t have come at a worse time. There’s still tension between me and Tanya, despite our attempts at making the environment more amicable.     We are drinking orange juice and trying to make conversation about anything else except the issue at hand. So when I receive the texts, I must have looked like a ghost, because Tanya asks me what the issue is with real concern on her face.     I try to brush it aside and mumble an “It’s not a big deal,” but my voice betrays me because it comes out shaky. Tanya obviously notices it and continues pressing me. I’m under too much pressure, so I snap.     “Tanya, stop pestering me. You are not my wife”. Tanya doesn’t quite believe I just said that because she opens her mouth to reply, but words don’t come out. I don’t apologize to her, because I’m under too much pressure. I stare at the phone with incredulity. Then Tanya does the unthinkable; she snatches the phone from me and runs to the corner of the house. I leap like an antelope and go after her. We are in a tussle now. She finally relents and hands the phone back, but she has already read the message, I can tell by the funny look on her face.     “Is she your girlfriend, Tendai?”    “Why do you care?” I reply curtly.    “Tendai, If you invited your girlfriend, thinking that would somehow prompt me to leave, then you don’t know how shameless I am.”    I’m too exhausted to reply and another message has come in. Sphiwe is demanding that I open the gate. I don’t know what to do, but since Sphiwe is my friend, I decide it will be easier to negotiate with her. I suspect Tanya will follow me outside, so I quickly go out and lock Tanya inside. She’s shouting, but I have too much on my plate to care. I run to the gate—an unnecessarily huge black monstrosity which stands out in the neighborhood like, well, a huge black monstrosity.     I’m trying to avoid drama, so I talk to her through the small opening on the gate. It’s big enough for me to stick my whole head through. Sphiwe is there with a frown on her face and a huge travelling bag. I can’t believe what I’m seeing. Am I dreaming? What is this cruel joke?     I try to rationalize it. Maybe she’s just passing by on her way somewhere. Because what’s the point of the huge travelling bag. But the tone in her message was different. It was pretty belligerent and a tad out of character. She sounded angry with me for some reason.     “Tendai, open the gate. Your girlfriend is in the house, right?”    “No, she’s not,” I reply absentmindedly. I’m tired.     “Okay, so open the gate, because I’m coming to stay with you. If you don’t open, I will stay here until your landlord comes and I will tell him the whole story,” she says with a rather strange emphasis.    My head is whirling as I try to digest the words. What is happening here? Am I dreaming?    “Sphiwe, what’s this? What whole story are you talking about? What’s happening?” I ask pleadingly. My head is reeling.    “You know what you did. Open the gate.”    “Sphiwe, don’t be silly. What did I do? Stop chatting rubbish,” I say with contrived aggression.    “Young man, I’m not here to play with you. Please open the stupid gate” she says in a calm but unsettling tone.    She looks tired and worn out. And super irritable. She can do anything right now. Anything at all.    “I will not open, Sphiwe. I’m not joking around. I will not open until you start being sensible and tell me exactly what’s going on.”    She heaves a deep sigh. Maybe she’s about to say exactly what it is that sent her here. I sincerely hope it’s not what I think. Except she doesn’t. She viciously kicks the gate and says, “Tendai, just open the stupid gate and stop being a petulant little boy.” She’s breathing heavily and looks on the edge of tears.     I realize I have no other option but to open the gate. My brains are threatening to pop out now. What will I do with two angry women when I couldn’t deal with one? I open the gate and she enters, dragging her massive bag. I don’t offer help. I’m too exhausted. We don’t talk; we just walk slowly to the house. I’m like a lamb being led to the slaughter, whatever it looks like.     We get to the door and Tanya is no longer shouting. My hands are shaking now and I’m struggling to put the key in the hole. Sphiwe looks at me with questioning eyes. I whisper, “My sister is visiting. She’s in there.”     She doesn’t answer. I know it’s a silly lie and it will be debunked in less than twenty-five seconds, but it’s still something. I open the door and Tanya is sitting on the couch with a calm aggressiveness. Sphiwe comes in and the two ladies lock eyes. No greetings are exchanged. The tension is palpable. I try to lighten the situation by making quick introductions.     “Tanya meet Sphiwe. Sphiwe meet Tanya.” It works in movies not in real life because Tanya suddenly blurts out.     “I’m pregnant with his child.” She removes her jacket so that the bulge is visible. I start feeling like I need a change of pants. Sphiwe is shocked because her face literally drops. She looks at me with burning disgust. She falls on the bed and heaves a deep sigh.     “Who are you? Because you are not Tendai’s girlfriend whom he’s engaged to. Are you the side chick?”    Tanya smiles, ignoring the thinly-veiled insult. “I’m pregnant with Tendai’s child. That’s all that matters. His engagement is none of my business,” she replies calmly.    I marvel at the lady’s ability to always be in control of the narrative. Sphiwe sees that her foe is more formidable than she thought because she doesn’t pursue the conversation further. There’s a deafening silence in the room and the tension keeps rising. I’m sweating and my heart is pounding yams, whatever pounding yams feels like.     Sphiwe twists her face, heaves and then with a shaky voice says, “I’m also pregnant with your child Tendai, and my mum told me to find the man who did it before dad finds out about it.” She starts sobbing.    Tanya doesn’t appear shocked, she just smiles. I’m too stunned to do anything. My feet are shaking uncontrollably. Sphiwe’s dad is a Pastor of some new age Pentecostal Church. He’s a very respectable man and definitely won’t take the news of her daughter being impregnated out of wedlock lightly.    Sphiwe stops sobbing and continues, “Right now, the official line is that I have gone to visit my older sister.” She looks at the wall, trying to avoid eye contact perhaps.    I remain silent; so does Tanya. A dark cloud hangs over the room. We stay like that for a good fifteen minutes. There’s really nothing to talk about. We are all completely overwhelmed. My life is in utter disarray. I can’t believe only a couple of hours ago I was the happiest man alive. Well, that’s an exaggeration, but I was happy. Now I’m mired in a deep conspiracy from which I can’t extricate myself without doing something drastic. Okay, a lot of drastic things.     Tanya breaks the silence this time and says, “So here it is Tendai. You have two wives. And a girlfriend you are engaged to.” I can even afford a smile. Special girl Tanya is. “Ever watched a TV show called Love and Polygamy?” she asks, looking at me with intense eyes. “You’re about to be that guy. Except that you are poor, so instead of buying us brand new BMWs, you will be buying us cheap second-hand watches, but that’s beside the point,” Tanya adds, without batting an eyelid or forcing a smile.     Sphiwe is looking at this naturally born stand-up comedian with incredulity and admiration. You can see it in her eyes and the smile she’s trying so hard to hide. But everyone is under no illusions regarding the gravity of the situation at hand. Sphiwe rises up and fixes herself a snack. She knows her way around the house; she has been here a couple of times before in very different circumstances. Women’s love for food is unparalleled because there’s no way I can think of eating while besotted with issues of such magnitude. Tanya is on her phone. She’s not typing so she must be reading a book. She casts me furtive, inquisitive glances from time to time. The room is stuffy. It’s the tension. My phone buzzes. I’m ignoring WhatsApp messages, but this is a proper text message, so I open it. It’s my girlfriend, Nyasha.    “Hi love. You’re not opening your WhatsApp. Will be there in 15-20 minutes. I’m spending the night there today. We have lots of things to do x.”     I close the message. Switch off my phone and run to the bathroom because suddenly my stomach is unstable and I want to puke. I reach the bathroom sink and I look in the mirror. I am pale as an apparition. No puke comes out, but my head is hot, so I open the tap and start washing my face. I close the tap and come back. I find Sphiwe sitting alone. I don’t ask, but she puts two fingers on her lips and looks away. I get the message. Tanya had gone outside to have a smoke. I’m shocked because I didn’t know she smoked, and also because she’s smoking while pregnant and risking the life of my little one inside her. I can’t lash out because there are lots of things that need to be sorted out first, and that most likely will never be sorted out. So I know my rights on the child are very limited.     She comes back with red eyes and I’m not sure if it’s the cigarettes or she’s been crying. I don’t care to ask because I’m too swamped with problems of my own. My girlfriend is on her way, and it’s about to be Armageddon out here. I have switched off my phone without replying, so I’m already in big trouble. I don’t know what to do because Tanya alone is already too much for me. Imagine three of them. And Nyasha is the most dramatic of them all. She also has a right to go absolutely haywire because she is the official girlfriend who’s known to my family, Pastor and friends, including Sphiwe. She’s going to raise hell for me from all corners. When she’s done with me, I will be worth a rotten loaf of bread in the face of everyone.     I can bolt and leave the girls here and go and stay with one of my friends. But Tadiwa is out of town. He would have at least tried to find a solution; even a temporary one would have given me some relief. Leaving the girls alone is not really wise though because the landlord will be prompted to ask questions. They will tell him and he will launch a manhunt for me. He’s that dramatic. Also, I will still have to come back and face the problems head-on.     I could book a lodge for Nyasha and I pretend it was a surprise, but it’s too late. She’s close by. Besides, she would still want to pass by the house. So I’m in deep mire. The tension in this room is rising again. Sphiwe looks like she has already lost a couple of kilograms. I switch on my phone and the call comes in promptly. It’s Nyasha. I hesitate to answer. Both girls give me inquisitive looks, but say nothing. I terminate the call and texts come in, three of them in quick succession. Two of them were sent while the phone was off. She is seething. I’m done for.     The landlord’s daughter is back, so she has already opened the gate and Nyasha is literally flying. Woman on a mission. She’s visibly exasperated. I’m almost about to collapse. This is an absolute nightmare. I meet her a few metres from the house and try to give her a conciliatory hug, but she brushes me aside and starts telling me off.    “Do you have another girlfriend, Tendai? Tell me now so that I can return your useless ring.” She reaches for the door before me and I feel my knees buckle from under me. I might just mess my pants here. We get in at about the same time. She looks at Sphiwe, who just gasps. Then, as if instinctively, she looks at Sphiwe’s bag, then at Tanya, who returns a stony stare, then at my tortured face. I avert my eyes. I don’t see the slap coming, but it’s more venomous than I would have expected because I stagger and rest by the wall. The second one catches me on my left ear and leaves it ringing. I don’t really feel the pain because I am too drained to feel anything. The fiasco has left me totally spent.     Suddenly, she starts sobbing. I try to hold her but she pushes me violently aside. I half hope that she angrily storms out, but she doesn’t. Instead, she goes and sits on the bed. I have three women here, all of whom expect me to marry them. My shenanigans have caught up with me in the most cruel way. I don’t know where to look, because the shame is heavy in my eyes. I can see Nyasha is no longer wearing the engagement ring, and I’m trying to figure out when she removed it. She’s staring into space, muttering something to herself. Tanya is still on the couch, staring intently at the screen of her phone. Sphiwe is playing “Temple Run.” I know because she’s addicted to the game. I realize no introductions have been made. Sphiwe knows Nyasha from photos and that’s as far as it goes.     Suddenly, Tanya decides to put Nyasha out of her misery in an ingenious way. “So I take it you are Tendai’s beautiful fiancee?” she asks matter-of-factly. Nyasha gives her an incredulous look but nods her head.     “Well, your husband-to-be has machismo. He impregnated the two women you are seeing here.” Tanya pauses for effect, then continues, “…so we are you sister wives. You’re the first wife, so we will give you the respect you deserve.” She speaks in such a matter-of-fact tone, you would think she’s serious, or maybe she is. You never know with Tanya.     I expect Nyasha to erupt, but she does something much worse. She stays calm–which is really way out of character for a person of her disposition. Then she looks intently at Tanya, who doesn’t bat an eyelid.     Finally, she responds in a measured tone, “So you are proud of it? You are proud of being a sister wife? How low is your self-esteem for you to even utter such demeaning words? Where is your honour?”     Then it happens, Nyasha erupts; the façade is gone. “You are so evil. So evil. How can you knowingly sleep with someone boyfriend? Why do you carry such a malevolent spirit within you?” she’s shaking now and she’s trying to fight back tears, but the tears are stubborn and they gush out anyway. Now her makeup is messed, but it looks like she doesn’t care anymore because she doesn’t wipe the tears off. She has bigger problems to deal with. In movies they don’t allow tears to mess the make up but this is real life, though it feels like a bad dream. A very bad one.     I don’t know what to do now and look aimlessly at the ceiling and the age-old spider webs look like they are staring back. Sphiwe has her head clasped in her hands. I think of going to embrace Nyasha, but she’s really in a state I don’t want to mess with, so I stay put in my little corner. Tanya isn’t even remotely moved and she’s looking Nyasha straight in the eye as if daring her to make a move. Nyasha advances toward Tanya. Tanya rises from the couch. They come to within inches of each other. It’s an epic standoff. Suddenly, Nyasha pivots and bolts. I hesitate. Following after Nyasha would look like an affront to these two ladies, but not following after her is even worse. She’s my real girlfriend, so the ramifications are potentially deadly.     I make for the door but Tanya is at the door before me. She has the keys and she locks the door. Now I’m trapped. My girlfriend has run out in a frenzy into the night, and I’m locked in here with two crazy girls. Well only one of them is really crazy. I’m fuming and confused, but I can’t act now because I will aggravate the situation. So I go to my couch and cradle my head in my hands, humming some morbid song. A couple of minutes later, a car pulls up. It’s not the landlord’s because it stops in front of my house.     My heart threatens to pop out because it has dawned on me what’s actually happening. Nyasha has called the Pastor on me and I’m done out here. The knock is belligerent. I take the keys from Tanya who’s sitting comfortably on the couch like she has all of life’s problems sorted. I hasten to open the door and I’m greeted by the Youth Leader’s sanctimonious face. The Pastor is second in line, followed by his wife and Nyasha. The situation has reached a crescendo. My house is too small, too shabby, and too full to accommodate them.     I greet them with a contrived cheerfulness, but they are not in the business for such trivialities. Only the Pastor’s wife mumbles a response. Sphiwe has been looking down for a while now and continues in that posture. Tanya is on her phone. She tries to greet the entourage, but she gets stern, accusing faces in response. I lead the entourage to my small kitchen where there are four small chairs and a table.     The meeting starts in earnest. It’s simple. I’m relieved of my duties as the Boys’ Fellowship Leader with immediate effect. I must choose between being disciplined in front of the whole assembly—that is a public pronouncement in Church that I won’t be taking part in Church activities for six months—or be completely banished from the Church for five years. I must marry Nyasha—because I made the vow before the Lord and I can’t break it—and pay damages for the two girls.     Easy right? You thought? Not exactly. Tanya erupts. She doesn’t care for damages. She wants marriage too, because she deserves it just like Nyasha. She doesn’t want to play second fiddle. The Pastor is shocked because his face literally drops. He isn’t used to being opposed like that, no less by a girl that young. He tries to speak, but he fails and gestures to his wife to do it on his behalf. The wife clears her throat and fixes Tanya with a stern stare whom, as I expected, fully returns the favour. The Pastor’s wife must have noticed it because she starts to speak in a mildly palliative tone.     “Young lady, what we are doing here is for your own good.” She pauses for a bit as she tries to pick her words carefully to deescalate the situation. “There is nothing worse than being a second wife to an unwilling husband,” she adds.    Tanya lets out a laugh. The Pastor and his wife give each other startled stares.     “How do you know he is unwilling to marry me. Did he tell you that?” Tanya says, looking at me with intense eyes. I avert her gaze and look down at my unpolished floor. The Youth Leader scratches his glistening bald head. You can tell he is ashamed on behalf of his superior.     The Pastor suddenly erupts, “Tendai, where do you find such girls? How in the world did you fall in love with this…”     Tanya interjects him viciously, “Eh, Pastor, this what? What are you trying to imply?” She’s breathing heavily. It’s the first time since she came that she has looked truly annoyed and out of control. “Please, I respect you, but don’t call me names ever again I won’t be responsible for how I respond.”    I’m still looking at the floor, hoping it can just open up, swallow me whole, and permanently put me out of my misery. The tension is thick in the air. Everyone looks stunned by the words Tanya has just said. Nyasha is covering her face with her hands and she looks terribly distraught. I can see a mild heaving of her chest. Sphiwe has quietly excused herself, and only Heaven knows what she’s doing outside.     The Pastor wife tries one more time, “Young girl…”     “I’m not a young girl. I’m twenty-three years old. Old enough to be wife to a much more sensible husband and mother to three children.”    Everyone is dumbstruck. The Pastor stands up slowly from his chair and, in a subdued tone, says “I hear you, young woman. You are right. I should not interfere. I will leave you to sort out this mess on your own,” he pauses as he wipes sweat that is literally dripping from his brow. “Tendai don’t come to see me until you resolve this issue. Do you hear me, son?”     I just nod. I don’t have the guts to look at him or at anyone else for that matter. I have been humiliated beyond measure. The worst embarrassment of my life and it’s not remotely close to be contestable. The Pastor continues, now in a more authoritative tone, “Nyasha look at me my child.”     I steal a glance in her direction and realize her eyes are heavy with tears.     “You don’t deserve this. Give this foolish boy his ring back. We are canceling the vows right this moment.”    Nyasha breaks into tears. Sphiwe is now back and she looks at the scene like it’s some horror movie.     Tanya stands up, takes a cigarette from her pocket, and lights it up in front of everyone. The whole house looks in utter horror. She smirks and says, “Your beloved son-in-law impregnated a chronic smoker. So much for a Boys’ Fellowship leader, huh?” No one utters a word. She adds as if as an afterthought, “And don’t worry about the baby, I don’t want it anyway.” The Pastor’s wife literally jumps from her chair, “Young woman, I beg you, don’t think of doing that. Life is sacred. You should not treat it like a simple thing. Please, I beg you.”     Tanya smiles sardonically, “If you cared so much about the child you would have told your beloved son-in-law to marry me and be responsible for his child, don’t you think?”     The Pastor’s wife is at a loss for words because she is blinking endlessly without saying anything.     Tanya with a sinister grin she says, “I’m joking. I love the child. I will make sure nothing happens to her. It’s unfortunate she has a stupid father.” She then excuses herself and goes out.     The Pastor follows immediately after her with the Youth Leader in tow. The Pastor’s wife stays behind and goes to where Nyasha is seated and starts whispering something in her ear. Nyasha nods and rises up, and they start walking toward the door. I can’t believe what has just happened.     Sphiwe is looking at me with murderous eyes. Being the Twitter fanatic that she is, I might already be trending for the wrong reasons. I open my Twitter, check her account and realize that she has already blocked me. I go to my burner account, search her name again and notice she has tweeted three consecutive “LOLs.” That shows the magnitude of her anger in a new light. I feel a strong headache descending and all of a sudden the room is spinning. I try to stabilise myself, but I realize my falling is inevitable. Last thing I remember is a figure coming to where I have fallen but my vision is blurry and I can’t tell who it is.  