Girl    NARRATOR  The main character, a female speaker who changes between an older and younger woman’s  voice.    VLAD and TARRAGON  Two male characters played by the same actress as the NARRATOR, each with different  voices.    Scene 1    NARRATOR: [In a younger woman’s voice:]  “Sister? You need to eat now.”  “Sister? You can’t just stand there.”  “Sister? Do you hear me?”  “Sister? Please…”    [Older woman’s voice:]  The girl’s eyes did not shift from the window.  Her fixed, sullen stare was perplexing.  Mystifying.  At the same time, however, the steadfast intensity of her gaze.  Held no life in it whatsoever.  It was as if her eyes,  Once impenetrable,  Had been polished matt  And left to dry…  Lustreless.  Life had been a series of constructs.  Abstraction to the point of…  Disillusionment/disenchantment/dissatisfaction/discontent…  Disappointment.  This did not fit into the girl’s childhood dreams and fantasies  Of gratification  And the promise of love.  No, not at all.  It was a dream gone astray,  Trespassing into the vile pit of nightmares  And getting prosecuted.  Put on trial for being…    VLAD: [Uses a man’s voice and changes position to his stance:]  “Absolutely absurd.”    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  And yet… the girl refused to believe that her dreams could not be rescued…  She stood by the window, day after day,  Lynching on tightly to her image of the prince.    TARRAGON: “He should be here.”    VLAD: “He didn’t say for sure he’d come.”    TARRAGON: “And if he doesn’t come?”    VLAD: “We’ll come back tomorrow.”    TARRAGON: “And then the day after tomorrow.”    VLAD: “Possibly.”    TARRAGON: “And so on.”    VLAD: “The point is—“    TARRAGON: “Until he comes. Until he comes…”    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  The existential playfulness of the dialogue was comforting.  She tried to believe that he would indeed come.  And she would wait.  For the prince, the castle.  And of course,  The promise of love.  But reality was never far from her thoughts…  Invasive and persistent,  It reminded her that, like Vlad and Tarragon, she might be waiting for the rest of  her life.  Existing merely for the sake of existence.  No real purpose or rationale.  The girl tried to disconnect her thoughts from this gloomy idea of reality.  She would not be satisfied with anything other than what she desired.  She saw too many people living their lives.  Breathing in  Breathing out…  vacant.  pleased with their “accomplishments” of    TARRAGON: “Marriage  mahogany furniture  monthly paychecks  maternal bliss…  To society, they were successful.  To her, they were just statistics.”    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  In the meantime,  she had decided to live her life in the only way she knew how.  The only way she thought fit for survival.  And survival was everything.  Headstrong and hedonistic.  If the opportunity of passion or pleasure arose,  the girl would abandon all responsibility.  She settled on attempting to have a fiery and frivolous love affair with the world  around her.  No matter how destructive this might be to both herself,  And those she encountered on her expedition.  However,  Rarely deceived in other walks of life,  The girl was amazed at her capacity to be deceived in love.      Scene 2    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  She sat by the river and silently wept.  All the innocence between them was lost.  Savagely ripped from them  like the night rips the light from the day.  Could things ever be the same again?  Was it possible to forget the lies, the deception and the trickery?  It was like a twisted game,  an eye-for-an-eye that had exploded into  full-blown  warfare.  There was always a calm that lingered in the air,  thick with the inevitable instance of war that would ensue.    [Moves across the stage with these lines:]  She tried.  Over  And over  And over again.  The girl relished the moments of warmth and safety that they found on very  rare occasions in their pursuit of happiness.  Would they ever find happiness and hold on to it long enough for all the pain to  be worth it?  Or was it all too late.  Such desperate questions that robbed them both of the joy of love.  And life.    VLAD: “Damaged goods!”    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  The girl considered the words and the possibility that she may be too damaged  and broken to ever truly find what she was looking for.  She attempted to banish these poisonous, tremulous thoughts from her mind,  but they always crept in during moments of darkness.  Moments just like this one.  Again she felt lost in the existential playground,  waiting and waiting for something that,  in all likeliness,  would never come to her.    NARRATOR: [Younger woman’s voice:]  “Sister? It’s time to come inside.”  “Hello?”  “Hello?”    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  There was nothing, no one there.  Only the stench of her own betrayal, amplified by that of another.  She resisted the urge to get up and run and tried, instead, to remember the  strength she once had.  She uttered the word…  Strength.  The words came out like a moan, and she immediately wondered whether it  was even a real characteristic of herself or whether she had merely made it all  up.  A pseudo-characteristic that she had ‘awarded’ herself in moments of courage.  This was not the picture of someone who possessed strength.    VLAD: “She was deceived once again.”      Scene 3    NARRATOR: [Older woman’s voice:]  She was approaching the end of her journey and could see the swirls of hope for  a better future.  She tried to paddle faster, but her oars were rotting, full of holes and the current  was pushing her in the opposite direction.  She thought about jumping into the dangerous water, but her ability to keep  herself afloat was… questionable.  What were her other options?  She closed her eyes and prayed, but there was still nobody listening.  Would it be easier to just give up the fight once and for all and simply allow the  current to take her back?  Maybe. But the girl was a fighter and DID NOT GIVE UP.  She continued pushing, paddling... praying...    [Moves across the stage with these lines:]    TARRAGON: “Praying to the  Devil  and the  deep blue sea.”  