In The Mirror  Hi. I wish I could say “Good Morning!!” to you too sometimes  and make you think, even if it’s just for a moment, that  I am as happy as I usually, naturally am, or at least used to be.    Unfortunately, I can’t lie to or defeat you,  not when it’s just the two of us. It has taken me  years and years of trying and failing again and again  in the name of strength and perseverance,  desperately needing an escape, but I think I’m starting to get it now.    Even the famous mother of success trembles and falls against you  just as easily as my happiness, sense of identity, voice, humour, power, confidence and entire  being did. So hi, just hello self.    I’m still broken, hurt, weak,  just as I have been for the past two years,  looking at you, my own reflection in a small, filthy mirror,  shadow of my former self: the woman  I was before I was betrayed by the one man  who had my heart and I was terrified,  before I walked into a heavily demarcated yard a happy child  and crawled out a numb, colonised excuse for a being.    The young woman I was when my hair was still mine,  when my hands were without scars and bruises,  when I was in content with who I was,  when I was still capable of decision-making,  when I still had a voice,  when I was still free.    Before I was a liar, a deceiver, a manipulator, a backstabber,  a burden, self-centred, two-faced, powerless, alone,  helpless, submissive…  before I became everything I am today,  everything I see in this mirror right now,  everything I had to do and become to “survive”.    Hell! Before the light in me died and my darkest,  most destructive parts invited you in here and  locked the damn door.  Now it’s just the two of us.  I have no desire to be with anyone else,  to let anyone else in.    The world shouldn’t see me this dead.  Not when this mirror shows you so clearly that  my tears can blur you away no more.  So, I guess this is, for yet another day, our own  “Please do make yourself at home…” moment.    I will not fight that, fight you anymore.  In here nobody can see us so they can’t pretend  to understand, make empty promises, worry, lie, leave me.    It’s just me in front of you, crying and slowly accepting  the fact that being just dead must be much better  than being a dead-girl-walking.  No one can break this door and pull me back,  not now that I’m this far gone.      