Tears of a Fountain     A name should be more than just a unique form of identification.  If it’s so important, we should burden ourselves  with the responsibility to live up to the meanings of our names,  then at least in our good traits  will we be able to be unique.    Whenever ‘she who is gentle [mild-mannered]’ wept in her position of face  in hands and elbows on thighs, the tears rolled down her face,  trickled down her arms, and fell on the curve of the cool cast stone beneath her  if the salty teardrops did not roll at such a leisurely pace,  perhaps a small puddle would have formed  beneath her drooped face.    But they evaporated before gravity oppressed them down,  at least that's what the woman thought,  a far fetched observation it was.  Almost as far-fetched as the observation that the crying girl,  ‘she who is gentle’  was unhappy.    She watched her from a safe distance,  the opposite side of the fountain,  through the pouring water and the few gaps barely present.  ‘She who is gentle’ was not aware that there was another person  seated on the fountain when she came,  she had not cared either.    She had sat and wept for five minutes straight,  dabbing her puffy eyes and flushed cheeks and  occasionally moist forehead tenderly with a soft tissue.    It felt as if on that fairy-tale fountain  all of life was merely unreal and  only what was permitted could have an effect, to both women.  When ‘she who is gentle’ ceased her tears  she had sat blankly staring before her,  but I doubt the plain shrub housing a grasshopper or two  felt flattered or uncomfortable from her lasting gawk  as though her eyes watched her front  her attention was in a place lacking not only a shrub  but a fountain and an attentive looker-on.    The street lights shone over them but  the moonlight outshone in the fountain,  it stared at its reflection in the serene water.  Its figure was slightly morphed into a wavier version but  its luminous glow resonated louder than the girl’s sorrowful emotions,  the woman’s nostalgic observation, and  even the shrub’s voiceless daydreams of blooming large  beautiful red roses so that when next someone stared  they would behold.    With a different name comes a different person  and if to say it was ‘she who is lively’ who was present  at that very moment when the girl turned her head and  saw a woman staring, from the opposite side of the fountain,  at her then she perhaps, if not only for the sake of the name,  would have resonated an aura of more agreeableness  than a gentle spirit could, and the woman would feel  the smile she offered more accepted with a welcome  rather than an insincere reception done solely  for the purpose of fulfilling societal protocol.    Her returned smile would yield courage to the woman  to walk halfway round the fountain to offer a hug to  ‘she who is lively’ and have the accepted hug be so  sentimental that the ceased tears would return and she would cry some more.  Then, in the light of the moment and in the agreeable  trait of the bearer of the name they would sit and  have her share, not all but, that she has tried and tried and tried and failed that she is  hopeless, that she is utterly hopeless.    And the woman would feel compelled,  more from the sore sight of lost hope in the youth  than the happenings in her life  (which to say the least could compel her just as powerfully),  to tell her that she should fight her hopelessness,  that she should die being hopeful.  That in hope does life live and in the end, is where all hope is lost.  And a sensation of joyful despair would envelop the two,  igniting the lost hope in one and  extinguishing the unlost in the other.    But such simply could not be for one named and known for being ‘gentle’.  For upon feeling that irking feeling  one gets when the eyes of another have been placed on her and  with intensity are being used to watch her then  turning to find just that with the woman,  she went pale with fright.    She rose from her seat, forgetting her foggy eyes and  puffy face and walked away quicker and quicker wondering,  with a sick knot in her stomach,  how long she had been sitting there,  watching her.