I Didn't Leave       Ice cold. Strong winds. Sheets of heavy rain.    Bare skin.    Under a leaky roof, inside thin walls, no power, no heat. Teeth chattering, limbs quivering,  hope dwindling. I might die here.    He has locked me in and taken my key and is gone. He took my clothes and the blankets with  him. He might not come back this time.    Light.    I must find a source of light. I open my shut eyes. No difference. I’m too cold to move. I need  to do something, anything, but I’m helpless; unable to do anything except wait – wait for a  man that may or may not return.    I think I’m going to die here.    Numb.    The cold has become numb, my blood at a standstill. The feeling in my digits, my limbs, my  face, my ears, is gone. I should move around, but the stillness is sweet. The numbness is too  sweet. I begin to drift. I drift off to happier places, warmer places, to places in the past, to a  time when the sun caressed my skin. I drift…    Time has passed. How much?    I force my eyes open. Light! I can see some light creeping in through the cracks in the corners  of the wall. I crane my neck to the left, something that requires all my effort. I’m looking for  the window from which the sunlight will come. I see no window. Where has the window  gone?    Boards of wood and nails occupy the space from which the light should come.    He boarded them shut. The bastard.    A lonely tear escapes my right eye, meanders down my cheek and settles at the base of my  chin. I believed I had no tears left to shed. I thought I had nothing left to lose. I thought I had  nothing left.    I drift away again. Darkness settles around me, and then makes its way into me. The darkness  is greedy. I am unable to fight it, and I let it carry me away…    Rumbling.    I am pulled to consciousness by a loud groan that stems from deep within my bowels. Food.  The chill that is now in my bones becomes insignificant and thoughts of nourishment  become the focus of my mind.    Hungry.    There must be something to eat. Anything. I’m weak. I’m too weak to look. I lift my head and  turn my neck towards the cupboards. They are wide open. Odd. I keep them closed.    Empty.    I close my eyes and wait for death.    Thirst.    A burning in my throat, hotter than anything I have ever known. My lips, my tongue, my  throat, drier than the Gobi. I start to dream about the rain that was pouring outside. When did  it stop? I imagine standing outside while it pours, opening my mouth, sticking out my  tongue, turning my head to the heavens. Drinking. Drinking to my fill, taking in all that the  sky offers.    I want to sleep but the burning in my throat is too strong. I want to escape. With each passing  second, with each ragged breath, requiring all the strength that my body can muster, the  thought of death becomes sweeter.    No one else besides him knows I’m here. There is no one else. He never let me have anyone  else. He said he would take care of me.    Funny. The devil himself is my guardian angel. My only hope for survival is in the hands of the  man keeping me captive and sucking my life away.    Light.    A stream of light brings me back. I reach out to Death, ready to latch onto him. But the worn  safari boot by the door is not his. He’s back, and slowly making his way towards me.    First relief comes, and then fear. The relief shrinks as he approaches, but the fear grows. I  don’t know what he’s going to do this time, but I know I am right to be afraid.    