A Search for the Closet’s Key    30 November 2006. That was a week ago, yet Themba could still feel all the emotions that had bubbled up inside his heart that day. From surprise to elation, but which all was crumpled down with sadness as realization struck. He had gone through almost all emotions known to humans in less than two minutes.    30 November 2006. The day when basic human rights were realized and accepted. The day when many people would not have to skip their own country for their love to be recognized in the eyes of the law. It was the day South Africa legalized same-sex marriage.    While others celebrated the new law, some people were disgruntled, and they felt no need to hide their anger and disgust. Those people included Themba’s family.    They had been sitting in the living room – him, his sister, and mother and father when the legalization became a topic on the news. As the news anchor announced it, Themba’s mother was the first to scoff in disgust before clicking her tongue. A ghost of a smile on Themba’s face that would have soon formed into a wide grin disappeared completely as he heard his mother’s expression of disgust.    “You see? Do you see this?” she fussed, finger pointing at the screen as she looked at her husband. “Like this country hasn’t taken enough rubbish, now this! They take this nonsense from overseas and bring it here. They bring filth in Africa. We are being tested. We are really being tested!” she yelled before slanting her head towards the floor and made a spitting gesture.    In response, Themba’s father shook his head slowly as he faced the screen, muttering a response that harmonized with his wife’s homophobic statement.    “Hawu, mama,” Themba’s sister, Xabisa spoke. “I don’t see anything wrong with this. If two people love each other, why shouldn’t they marry? You always say that everyone should taste the sweet fruits of love and marriage, so why shouldn’t they?”    Themba’s smile that had once disappeared soon returned to his face, but once again vanished when his mother spoke again. Her venomous tone was sharper than before. “If I should ever hear such nonsense coming out of your mouth again, I swear, I will do something that will make you regret me being your mother. No child of mine is going to support such filth in my house.”    “Mama...” Xabisa had started to say but she was quickly interrupted by her father.    “Do not speak back to your mother, especially on such a subject. We are cultured   people and we do not support such… confusion.”     Xabisa huffed and turned her attention back to the TV in anger while Themba just sat there, letting his parents’ words sink in.  It was the first time that the topic of homosexuality had actually been spoken about in their home, and it was also the first time Themba learnt what his parents thought of it. It only made him more anxious.    ***  On a morning like most others, Themba had woken up and prepared for school before going to the kitchen where his mother would have already prepared a bowl of peanut butter porridge. He greeted her as he sat on a high stool near the kitchen table. His mother smiled and greeted him back before serving him a bowl of porridge.    He ate slowly as his thoughts casually landed on last week’s conversation. Judging from what had occurred, he knew he would not be accepted by his parents – should he come out of the closet. Xabisa would, he already knew that, but her acceptance of his sexuality would not be enough. He loved his parents, and he couldn’t imagine living his life being hated by them for how he was born.    “Themba,” came his mother’s voice, interrupting his thoughts. He looked at her and her eyes darted downwards, signaling at the bowl in front of him. “Eat faster, my child, or you’ll be late for school,” she said with a smile before continuing her kitchen work.     Themba looked at her as she worked, noting the big difference between the smile she usually wore and the anger she had expressed last week. His heart raced faster as the thought of that anger being directed at him crossed his mind.    “Morning,” came Xabisa’s voice from behind him. He turned to look at her and was surprised to see her still in her nightwear.    “Aren’t you prepared to go to work yet?” his mother asked the same question that was lingering in his mind.    She shook her head with a yawn as she stretched and sat beside Themba. “I’m off today.”     Her mother hummed in response before serving her a bowl of porridge.     “Did you guys hear what happened yesterday at the Khambules?” Xabisa asked. Her mother turned around to face her, already showing interest in the topic. “Njabulo visited his parents yesterday, but apparently, not even two hours passed before his parents started yelling and literally kicked him out of the house. He swore at them before getting in his car and driving off.”    “Why?” her mother asked as she put a fist on her round hip, eyebrows tightly furrowed.    Xabisa swallowed a spoonful of her porridge before answering. “Apparently, he’s gay, and he had come to tell his parents he would be getting married soon to another man now that the law allows it. His parents were obviously not happy, and he was immediately kicked out and apparently disowned. Poor thing.”    Themba’s brows had raised the minute he heard Njabulo’s name. He was one of those names in the village that many parents used as an example to encourage their children to study harder. A man who many people looked up to. Someone born in a simple household in a simple village who grew up to be a successful businessman in the city.    To hear that Njabulo was also gay had momentarily made Themba feel a little less alone, but when he heard the outcome of his coming out, his heart immediately dropped, once again throwing him into a pit of doubt, fear and despair. He had no doubt he would also suffer Njabulo’s fate should he decide to come out. He couldn’t stand the thought of being away from his family. He couldn’t imagine standing on his own without them. Perhaps he would have to wait, just like Njabulo did. He only had two years of high school left anyway. After studying further and being stable, perhaps then he would be able to come out to his parents.    “Poor thing?” suddenly came the sharp voice of Themba’s mother. “Poor thing, my foot, man! Kicking him out was not enough! If he was my son, I would have...” she suddenly paused as she brought her curved hands up near her chest and shook them slightly, making a choking gesture. Themba subtly gulped, knowing very well what she meant. She huffed as she dropped her hands and turned around to face the sink.     “It must be the city. He must have been brainwashed by possessed people from the city. He would have never become like that if he continued staying here in the village.”    “No, mama,” Xabisa protested, “No matter where he would have stayed, he would still be who he is. He was born like that and...”    “Hey! Hey! Hey!” her mother suddenly interrupted her, turning around quickly to face her. “I’ve warned you not to say those kinds of things in support of that nonsense. Otherwise, I’ll do the same thing that Njabulo’s parents did to him!” she fumed before her eyes darted towards Themba, who had stopped eating when his sister came in. “Themba, finish your food and quickly go to school.”    Themba had long lost his appetite, but he knew better than to refuse food dished for him by his mother, especially in front of her. If eating slowly was not going to get him to school late, his mother’s lecture on not wasting food would. He quickly cleaned his plate just for the sake of finishing and stood up.    He grabbed his school bag, but before he could sling it over his shoulder, his sister, who was still eating, called his name. He turned towards her and she opened her mouth to speak, but nothing came out. A few seconds went by and she still hadn’t said a word. She threw a glance towards her mother who was still busy at the sink then looked back at him again. Her eyes seemed to say a lot, but Themba could hardly interpret what they were trying to say, although he thought he detected a hint of pity in them.     “Ha-have a good day, neh?” she finally spoke before giving him a small smile.    Confused because he was certain that’s not all she wanted to say, Themba’s brows furrowed. “Yah,” he replied, “Thank you. You too.” He finally carried his bag and made his way out of the house.    Noting that his best friend, Samukelo, wasn’t already waiting for him outside, he already knew he was still early. Samukelo lived about a block down from his own home and was not very conscious about time.    Shoving his hands into the pockets of his school pants, Themba made his way down the road until he reached Samukelo’s place. Before he could even reach his gate, he saw Samukelo coming out with his school bag slung over one arm. Themba smiled as soon as his eyes fixed on him and his heart started beating a lot faster, practically pulsating inside his chest.    Samukelo had been one of those factors that made Themba realize that he was gay. His zero interest in girls had been a big hint. Instead of desiring girls in his school or any other girl for that matter, he found himself closely watching his best friend. At first, he tried brushing it off as friendly admiration, but when Themba found himself fantasizing about him and being extremely jealous of any girl Samukelo ever got close to, he knew it was more than that.    Of course, he would never tell him. Samukelo was one of those people he feared losing, should he come out of the closet. He might be able take ridicule from others, but he couldn’t imagine a world where Samukelo would look at him with disgust or disdain. That would definitely crush him.    He watched as Samukelo closed the gate of his home and faced him with a smile. “Hey, man!”, Samukelo greeted him with a cheery smile, putting his fist up then extending it towards Themba.    Themba smiled before bumping his fist with Samukelo’s. “Samu,” he acknowledged him with a bigger smile. “Someone’s a little cheery today, and might I also mention, a lot earlier than usual.”    Samukelo chuckled lightly as they started walking. “What can I say, my friend? It’s a beautiful day, and it wouldn’t hurt me to be almost as punctual as you are,” he said with a big grin as he lightly elbowed Themba.    “This new attitude of yours wouldn’t have anything to do with Noluntu, would it?” he asked, feeling the little sparks of envy bubbling up inside of him at the mention of her name.    Samukelo’s smile brightened, only worsening Themba’s jealousy. He had known Samu his whole life, and even then, he doubted that just the mention of his name could make him smile that much.    “Maybe,” Samukelo sang as he shrugged his shoulders. “Love can change a man, Themba. Love can change a man.”    “Perhaps, but I would like to remind you that you are not a man,; you are still a boy,” Themba teased.    Samukelo laughed and shook his head. “Trust me, Themba, there’s nothing boyish about me,” he said with a wink. The simple gesture made Themba feel warm inside.     “And anyway, when are you going to get yourself a girlfriend?” Samukelo asked. Themba immediately felt his body tense up, “I’ve never once seen you showing any interest in a girl. I mean, I’m sure there are many girls who would be willing to be yours. You are quite good looking, after all. Well, not more good looking than me, but still.”    Themba smiled at the compliment and couldn’t help but shake his head at his friend’s prideful comment. “I just haven’t met any girl that sparked my interest.”    Samukelo’s brows raised a little before furrowing as a teasing smile played on his lips. “Oh, wow. Someone is a little picky.”    “I’m not picky. I just...” he took a pause before continuing, “have my preferences.”    “Oh?”, Samukelo raised a brow. “And what are these preferences, dear friend? You are not waiting for some fancy-dressed, funny-talking girl from the city, are you?” he joked.     Themba shrugged in response. Samukelo chuckled and slung an arm over Themba’s shoulder. Themba internally prayed that he wouldn’t hear the thumping of his heart.     “Oh, friend of mine. You aim for the unattainable.”    “I’m not aiming for it, just simply wishing for it. I know better than to think or try to attain it,” Themba mumbled, but it was loud enough for Samukelo to hear, which made his smile falter a bit.    He let go of Themba, and they walked in silence for a minute or two.     “Look, I was joking,” he suddenly broke the silence, “It’s not impossible for you to get any girl that you want. Whether she is from here or the city.”    Themba shook his head. “No... the person that I want, I can never get.”    Samukelo’s eyes widened a bit. “Themba, are you in love someone?”    Themba chuckled; not an ounce of humor was present in his tone. “Don’t worry about it, man. Tell me about your plans with Noluntu. Do you see this going somewhere?” he asked, trying to change the topic. He succeeded. As soon as Themba had asked that, Samukelo grinned and started yapping on and on about Noluntu.    ***    Soon, they found themselves in front of the gates of their school. They had hardly made it inside when Themba saw a girl running towards them. As she got closer, her features became more familiar to him. Shoulder length hair, plaited in neat cornrows, a beaming smile, making the corners of her eyes slightly crease, but accentuating the twinkle in them, a well-developed, voluptuous body (perhaps, too developed for her age) that would not cease to go unnoticed despite the dull mixture of colors of the lemon yellow shirt and green school skirt. It was none other than Noluntu. One of the girls among many who Themba secretly considered rivals in having Samukelo’s attention.    Noluntu finally reached them, and without as much as a greeting or a nod of acknowledgement towards Themba, she immediately threw herself into Samukelo’s arms. Samukelo cackled as he immediately wrapped his arms around her waist, catching her rather easily. The sight made Themba subconsciously frown.    After a few kisses and giggles and more embracing, the couple finally let go of each other and turned to Themba, who immediately wiped away his frown and replaced it with a friendly but rather forced smile. He could only hope that they wouldn’t see through it, and by the looks of it, they didn’t.    Noluntu finally acknowledged Themba and greeted him with a big smile. A smile he knew would disappear the minute she knew of his feelings for her boyfriend. He greeted her back before looking at Samukelo. “I’m going to get to class,” he said, using his thumb to point behind him.    “Oh, come on. Stay a little longer. The bell hasn’t even rung yet,” Samukelo whined, his face pleading with him.    For a moment, Themba considered staying, but as soon as his eye landed on Noluntu, whose face clearly showed she wasn’t happy with the idea, he changed his mind. “No, I have homework that I didn’t do. I’ll just find a class to get it done before the bell rings,” he lied.    Samukelo raised a brow. “You didn’t do your homework? Could you at least come up with a better lie? Is there someone you want to meet, perhaps?” he suggested, wiggling his eyebrows.    Themba shook his head. “No. I just had too much work yesterday and dozed off late and didn’t get the chance to finish up my homework,” he lied again. “I’ll see you later.” With that, he turned and made his way to class. He stopped when Samukelo called his name and turned around to see him running after him while Noluntu stood where he had left her. He tried to ignore the unhappy look on her face.    Samukelo finally stopped in front of him and placed a hand on his shoulder. “Look,” he said in a hushed tone as if he feared someone would hear him, “You and I still need to talk about that person you like,” he smiled.    Themba stayed silent for a while before looking down. A second later, he looked into Samukelo’s eyes and shook his head. “No. It’s better that we don’t. You should probably go back to Noluntu. She’s waiting for you.” He stepped back, allowing his friend’s hand to drop from his shoulder and walked away.    He was sure that Samukelo was not surprised when he made an excuse to leave. He always did that whenever his girlfriend was around. Not because he didn’t want to be a third wheel, but because he feared that his feelings would be found out. From what he knew, girls were adept at seeing someone’s true feelings. Though he was sure he was good at hiding his own feelings, he didn’t want to take the risk of them ever being found out. What he felt for Samukelo was a secret he would have to die with for the sake of the preservation of their friendship.    Like any other Thursday, the day went by slowly, and the students did not do much to hide the fatigue they felt for the amount of work they had the entire week. As soon as the bell rang, they all perked up, excited by the idea of being able to go back home and rest.    Themba wasted no time getting out the school gates and rushing home. This was an attempt not to run into Samukelo because he knew he would coax him to walk together with him and Noluntu. He hated that Samukelo constantly tried to get him close to his girlfriend. Themba could really care less about her or anyone else who Samukelo had ever dated or will date. He knew very well that he was jealous, he no longer tried denying it, but it never changed the fact that Samukelo still had a girlfriend. This was the only reason he and Samukelo sometimes no longer walked together back home.    Themba missed those times when it was just him and Samukelo. A time when all they knew was each other’s companionship. A time when both of them hardly cared about love. A time when Themba hardly knew about love. Now, he found himself rejoicing when Samukelo would break up with a girl and dreading the moments where he would tell him he had a new girlfriend.    Themba finally arrived home and found his mother and sister both sitting in the living room. His sister slouched on the couch, remote in hand, as she flipped through the channels on the television. His mother sat cross-legged opposite where Xabisa was sitting, a novel in hand and reading glasses cutely perched on her nose. When she noticed his presence, she looked at him over her glasses and smiled. “Hi, my baby. How was school?”    Themba smiled back. “It was good. Hey, Xabi,” he greeted Xabisa, who only gave him a wave in return, still focused on the TV as she continued surfing through channels.    Themba went into his room and changed out of his school uniform before putting on something casual. He went into the kitchen, knowing that his mother would have already prepared lunch for him. He saw two covered plates of food on the table and uncovered one of them. Rice with tinned pilchards and chakalaka. One of his favorite meals. He covered the plate before warming it up. As Themba waited for his food to heat, he went back into his bedroom and took out a few books to do his homework.    He went back into the kitchen again and sat with the now warm food on the table. He alternated between eating and writing, careful not to spill any food on the pages of his books. After he was done eating, Themba took his plate to the sink, washed it, and then went back to sit at the table again to finish off his homework.    Themba let out a big huff after he was done and stood up, stretching as he did so. He grabbed a notebook and a pen and started making his way out of the kitchen. He went into the living room to let his mother know where he was going. He found her now staring at the TV screen along with Xabisa. Her novel and reading glasses were now placed on her lap. Xabisa was still slouched on the couch, the only difference from a while ago being the position of her body. She often complained of back problems, and her mother told her countless times that it was because of her slouching. It was obvious she wasn’t taking that into consideration.    “Mama, I’m going to the library,” Themba told her as he started making his way out.    “Okay, my baby,” she replied, eyes still focused on the TV.    Themba was about to leave when he suddenly remembered something. He turned back and walked towards the couch that Xabisa was slouching on. “Xabi,” he called her, and she hummed in response. “What did you want to tell me this morning?”    Xabi finally gave Themba her full attention. “Heh?”    “This morning, you wished me a good day, but I had a feeling that you wanted to say something else. Maybe you thought I was running late. What did you want to say?” he asked. At this, his mother also turned her attention away from the TV and looked at the two siblings.    Xabisa looked at Themba with slightly widened eyes as if to silently reprimand him. “You are mistaken, Themba. I really was just wishing you a good day.”    Themba cocked a brow. “But you hardly ever do that.”    “Hardly, not never. It was one of those days that I decided to wish you a good day. I know how hectic grade ten can get. That’s why.” Themba stared at her for a while.    “I’m sure my baby is handling it just fine. He always has,” his mother said fondly. “Time goes by so fast, neh? Soon you’ll be done with school, and you’ll move out and start a family, unlike your sister here,” she teased playfully.    “Eish, mama,” Xabisa groaned, “I told you, I’m still saving up money for a new place. For now, let me enjoy mooching.”    “Don’t you think it’s time you actually thought of getting married instead of thinking of living alone? Most girls your age have already started families.”    “Hayi, mama. I told you, I haven’t found the right man and most of the girls you speak of got pregnant while still in high school.”    “And do you think you will find this right man when all the housework you ever do is wash your own plate and just slouch on your free days?”    Xabisa laughed. “If he loves me, he won’t mind.”    “If you don’t get married anytime soon, by the time you do get married, your womb would have dried up. You’ll get kicked out by your husband and come back here.”    “And then I get to eat your delicious cooking and get to slouch, so in the end, I’ll win,” she joked. Her mother shook her head with a smile and turned her attention back to the TV.    Themba smiled and bid them goodbye again before going out and heading to the library after making sure that his library card was safely tucked in his pocket.    He spent at least three hours in the library before he decided to go back home. It was getting dark, after all. When he got back home, he found his mother in the kitchen, preparing dinner and his father, now back from work, sitting in the living room with his sister now sitting upright. He greeted his father and started making his way to his room.    “Oh, Themba, whatever happened to you and Samukelo? I hardly see you with him nowadays. You two are not fighting, are you, boy?” his father asked before he could get to his room.    “Oh, no,” he replied as he shook his head, chortling lightly, “He has a girlfriend, so I just try to give him space.”    “Yoh! Samu has a girlfriend? That’s too early,” his mother commented from the kitchen.    “No, hardly,” his father said, “Many boys have girlfriends at that age. I remember that I even had my first girlfriend in eighth grade.”    “Yoh!” Xabisa commented simply.    Her father chuckled. “Many boys are curious at that age and basically yearn for girlfriends. It’s not a surprise, really.”    “Ooohhh, so does that mean you also have a girlfriend, Themba?” his mother asked in a playful tone.    “I doubt it,” his father replied. “The boy’s nose is always buried in books. He hardly notices the girls around him. Just lift your head up from your books for a minute, son, and you’ll notice all the beautiful girls around you.”    “Hey, stop trying to distract my brother from his schoolwork,” Xabisa chimed in.    “If he has his priorities straight, he won’t even get distracted just by having a girlfriend. I was a bookworm just like him when I was in school, but I still had a girlfriend. Themba is too much. I’ve never even seen him once looking at a girl in a yearning manner like most boys his age do,” he said before looking at Themba. “You are not gay, are you, boy?”    Themba immediately stiffened at the question even more than he had when this conversation first started. He knew by the smile on his father’s lips that he was just joking, but he still felt his heart thump in fear. Saying ‘yes’ would wreak havoc, but saying ‘no’ would be lying, not only to his family but to himself as well.    Luckily his mother suddenly spoke up, and although Themba was grateful for that save, what she would say next only made him feel worse.     “Of course not! My baby is definitely not that. So what if he’s focused on his books for now? I am sure that one day, he’ll have a girlfriend when he decides it.”    His father chuckled and waved a hand in the air. “I was only joking. I’m sure he knows better than to disappoint us like that.”    “Disappoint? Yoh! I would bring the whole house down!” she fumed, “It’s either I would kick him out, or I would lock him up in his room until he comes back to his senses, if I didn’t kill him first!”    “Mama!” Xabisa interjected.    “I know your brother is not gay, Xabi. I was just saying ‘if’, but I know that ‘if’ is never going to happen. Not in this house. Not with my children.”    Themba had been standing there awkwardly, trying hard not to blink because he knew that as soon as he did, the tears he was desperately trying to hold back would definitely run down his cheeks. He bit his bottom lip, another desperate attempt not to cry. Without looking at anyone, he turned before they could see his glossy eyes. “I’ll be in my room. I need to go over my notes.”    “Okay, my baby. I’ll call you when dinner is ready,” his mother sweetly told him. He was once again surprised at how quickly her venomous tone changed into her normal, sweet one.    He nodded and rushed into his room, forgetting to lock the door. He quickly flopped on his bed and buried his head in his pillow, finally letting his tears out. He muffled his sobs, letting his emotions out silently.    He wasn’t prepared for that question. Even if he was, he doubted he would have answered properly. He cursed himself in silence, and for a moment, even cursed his parents for giving birth to him. He had recently found out that they were homophobic to the core, but for his mother to say all that, even theoretically, was hurtful. A stab to the heart.    He panicked when he heard his door being opened. He quickly lifted his head from the pillow and looked to the other side, furiously wiping away his tears. “Themba,” came Xabisa’s hushed tone.    “Hmm,” he hummed in response, still wiping away his tears as discreetly as he could.    “Do you mind if I come in?” she asked, the hushed tone still present in her voice.    After he was sure that he had wiped away the last of his tears, he sat up and faced the door with a forced smile. “No, I don’t mind. Come in.”    Xabisa closed the door behind her, locked it and then walked over to his bed. She sat beside him and was silent for a while. “You don’t have to pretend with me, you know?” she said before looking at him. Themba furrowed his eyebrows in confusion. “Your eyes are red.”    “Oh!” he said in realization, his hand instantly touching his face. “Yeah, I got something in my eye. They must have been irritated from me rubbing them too much, and I’m kind of sleepy too.”    Xabisa stared at him and smiled woefully. “I thought at least you trusted me enough not to pretend in front of me.” Themba didn’t say anything, not knowing how to respond. “You were right. This morning, I did want to say something to you.” Themba nodded, urging her to continue. “Themba, I know you are gay,” she said softly.    Themba’s eyes widened, taken back by the statement. He quickly covered up his surprise by faking a laugh. “What? Yoh, Xabi, that’s crazy! Me? Gay? No, never,” he shook his head.    “So when are you going to trust me enough to actually not lie to me? Or what, do I seem that untrustworthy?”    Themba’s fake smile immediately disappeared. In place, a somber look of guilt marred his features. “No, Xabi. I trust you. I promise that I trust you. How could I not? You are my sister.”    “Then why are you lying to me, holding up this facade the same way you do with our parents?”    Themba’s jaw clenched, and he gulped, looking away. “How... how did you know? I’ve never... I’ve never...” he stammered, looking at his sister once again.    “You’ve never told me? You’ve never hinted at it? You’ve never shown it? Is that what you want to ask me?” she asked. It wasn’t exactly what Themba wanted to ask, but he nodded anyway. She chortled and pinched his cheek. “This is not something you hint at. It’s not a game. It’s who you are. I’ve known for a long time. Perhaps, even longer than you have.”    “If that is so, why have you never said anything?”    “Because it’s something one has to figure out by themselves. Plus I didn’t want to risk the chance of being wrong. You know how I hate being wrong,” she chuckled. “One of the biggest hints... I would have to say... is the way you look at Samukelo. I hardly believe that is just how anyone would look at a friend, even a best friend. And you never seem happy whenever that airhead talks about his girlfriends.”    “It’s not his fault that I’m in love with him. That is my mistake.”    “You are intelligent, but I doubt anyone is smart enough to actually control who they do or don’t fall in love with. Trust me, I know.”    Themba smiled. “Are you perhaps familiar with that because of that lowlife Senzo?”    “Eish, don’t even say his name. Even now, I still wonder why I fell in love with him. The thought that I used to love him makes me shiver even today, but that’s how it is. You can’t control who you love.” She stayed silent before taking one of Themba’s hands in hers then looked into his eyes. “Bottom line here is that... I accept you. Whether you are gay or straight, whether you like boys or girls, heck you could even like a lowlife like Senzo, but that would change nothing. You are still my little brother, and I will always love you, no matter what.”    Themba’s lip trembled at her words, and he tried his hardest to blink the oncoming tears away. To hear that someone actually knew his sexuality and accepted him had him feeling a lot of emotions all at once. Elation and relief were the most prominent.     “You don’t have to hold back tears in front of me. Let it all out, kid. No matter how ugly you look when you cry,” she joked as she pulled him in for a big hug, allowing him to sob silently on her shoulder. She smiled as she lightly patted his head, allowing him to let all his emotions out before she could ask the next question.    After embracing for minutes upon minutes and Xabisa felt that Themba had finally calmed down, she asked him, “When are you going to tell them?” She felt his entire body stiffen in her embrace before he moved away from her.    “I’m not going to tell them. Ever.”    “What?!”, Xabisa asked, “Why not, Themba? You need to tell them.”    “No, I don’t. Did you hear them just now? I’ll be disowned, thrown to the streets and forgotten, or worse. It’s better if I keep quiet. I love them. I can’t imagine my life without them. I can’t risk ever losing them.”    “If they love you just as much as you love them, they won’t want to risk losing you either over something you can’t control.”    “They do love me. I know that, but I also know that they can’t accept me as I am and...”    “So, what do you plan to do, Themba?” she interrupted him, “Keeping this to yourself for the rest of your life?”    Themba licked his lips and looked down at his lap, where he was fiddling with his hands. “If that is what I have to do then, yes.”    Xabisa crossed her arms over her chest. “So, what? Do you plan to eradicate your feelings for Samukelo, never fall in love with any other guy, and end up marrying some girl just to make mama and baba happy?”    Themba stayed quiet as he mulled over the question. “Yes,” he replied in a hushed tone.    “Since when did you become so selfish? So, you’ll toy with a girl’s heart, make her believe you love her and even go as far as to marry her just for the sake of never coming out? How different would that make you from Senzo?” she spat.    Themba quickly lifted his head and looked at her. “Don’t compare me to him.”    “Well, you give me no choice. Don’t you remember? He used me, made me believe that I was the one for him, and cheated on me. His cheating and your cheating would not be the same, but it has the same effect. It all ends up with a broken-hearted girl who feels stupid.”    Themba quickly covered his face in shame, more tears threatening to spill from his eyes. “What do you want me to do, Xabi?”    She reached out to him and removed his hands from his face, allowing him to face her. “I want you to disregard other people’s feelings for a while. Think selfishly when making this decision. Do not think of what other people will feel when you decide to show who you are. It’s either people accept you or they don’t. It should not mean much to you if they don’t.”    “I’m scared,” Themba whispered, “I’m very, very scared.”    “You don’t have to be. Not when I’m still here. If they disown you... then they are disowning me too.” Themba’s eyes widened at her statement. “I refuse to let you live an unhappy life. Mama was right, it is about time that I move out, and I will soon. If by then you tell them the truth and they accept you, I’ll move out happily, if they don’t... I’m taking you with me.”    Themba’s eyes widened even more. He opened his mouth to speak but found no words.    “Themba! Xabi! Dinner is ready!” their mother called out to them.    Xabisa sighed and stood up, then walked over to the door. She unlocked it, but before opening it, she turned back to look at Themba then said, “It’s up to you, Themba. An unhappy life in the closet or a joyous life out of it. You don’t even have to search for the key. You already have it. You have to decide whether you keep the door locked or unlock it and set yourself free.”    With that, she opened the door and went out, closing the door behind her. Themba let her words sink in as he closed his eyes. He pondered over her words before finally opening his eyes, a look of determination glinting in them. He had finally made a decision.  