Lulu On The Shore     I don’t know why I’m writing a diary. It seems a little weird, to be honest, but my English marks are low, so I need to boost them up by writing a long story. I told her I didn’t know what to write about, because I honestly don’t. I’m no Roald Dickens or whatever, so how was I just supposed to pull a story out of my ass. Honestly, adults are such idiots sometimes. Anyways, the English teacher said that I should write a journal or diary or whatever. She said she would give me three weeks to write the journal and I could draw a five page story from it.     So today I went sailing at Green Bay Yacht Club. I don’t know why it’s called that, it’s just some sailing club that our school offers. Anyways, Green Bay Harbour is quite small, just a little small place in Cape Town. Nothing special. The people who did sailing were Jules, Luke, Tom, Stephie and me. Oh, also this girl called Lulu, she’s kind of weird. Like, she doesn’t talk much and you only really hear her name when the teacher was commenting on her good grades and shit. Sorry about the swearing, I guess.     I was letting go, so the sail was getting bigger. I was catching some serious speed, but I couldn’t go out of the marina yet. Jules forgot her life jacket, so our sailing instructor Leo had to go back and get it. That’s why we were just sailing around the marina until Leo got back. I think everyone else was fooling around close to the deck, trying to capsize and shit. But I was trying to see how fast I could go, plus the water was really cold.     Anyways, I heard some heavy breathing from behind one of the old boats. Of course, the wrong thoughts came into my head, so I hid behind the boat and put my hand against it so my boat would stop moving. More heavy breathing, then a life jacket was floating on the water. Now I was worried, so I listened closer. I heard something unzip. That was it for me. I sailed to the end of the boat and saw Lulu. She was taking off her wetsuit to reveal her yellow swimsuit. The yellow stood out against her dark skin. I snapped out of it realizing that she couldn’t see me. What was she doing?     “Hey, what the hell are you doing, fam,” I said in a joking manner.     She didn’t even look at me. She just jumped into the water. What the hell? It was like she was trying to dive for something. I looked at her in the water, she was drowning I thought.     It took me a good five minutes to get her out of the water. She was trying to kick me away. Finally, I got her out and kind of shoved her on the back of my boat. She was knocked out cold. Damn that water was freezing! When I got back on my boat, I took a moment to breathe. Then I helped her, letting her lay down on her back. I pressed my hands on her chest. Water came out of her mouth and nose. With a gasp, she sat up. Blood started to stream from her nose; she gave me a desperate look. She was breathing heavy. I didn’t focus on that; I just tied her boat to the back of mine. Was she trying to drown herself?     “Hey, are you ok?” I asked.     She didn’t say anything; she just lay down and wiped the blood from her nose.     “Please don’t tell anybody anything,” she said.     I nodded my head. When I got back to the deck, Leo was finally there.     “Yoh, that took long. Jules, you left your life jacket in the girls’ shower! Why on earth did you do that?” asked Leo, as he helped Jules and Stephie. It did take long. It was already 5:30 and sailing was over now.     “Jeez, what the hell happened to her?” asked Luke, who was already loading the boats on the dock.     Everybody turned to see Lulu, who was lying on her back without her wetsuit on. She sat up.     “Er… I was looking at a seal. I was looking at a seal, and I fell and hit my head on that big orange boat. I was knocked out cold, and Easton saved me,” she said.     Everybody nodded their heads. “Thanks, Easton. If she died, that would have been a lot of paperwork,” said Leo. Everybody gave a low chuckle.     It must have been around 10:00. I was lying on my bed, just fooling around on my phone. So I got some whiskey from underneath my bed and took a swig. Ja, I know I wasn’t supposed to drink at fifteen, but who gives a shit anyways? It’s not like I’m an alcoholic or anything. So I was drinking the stuff and fooling around on my phone, and I decided to go on the school WhatsApp. I think Jules made one so that we could ask about homework and shit. So I looked at all the people and found Lulu’s number. Her profile picture was of her doing the peace sign with her two friends. I must have had a lot of shit to drink because I called her. It rang three times, I think.       “Hello,” said Lulu.     “Hey, how are you?” I asked.     “Easton,” she said.     My name wasn’t Easton, it was James, but because everybody’s name was James, people just called me by my surname.     “Yeah, that’s my name,” I said. My words were a little slurred.     “Easton, are you under the influence of alcohol?”     “Yoh, what a fucking angel you are Lulu.”     “Easton, please don’t swear. Why did you even call me anyway?” she said.     “Well, I er just um. I just wanted to know if you tried to drown on purpose,” I said.     “No, I just had a bit of a panic attack, I guess. Why do you care anyways?”     “Salty much. I was just asking.”    “Ok, Easton. I’m fine, thanks. You should stop drinking and get some sleep. I mean, bye, it was nice chatting.” That was a lie.     “Yeah, ok sorry, bye,” I said.     She dropped the call, and I slid the nearly empty whisky under my bed again. Luke was going to be pissed because we were gonna save it for his sleepover on Friday. At least I’ll get a reputation for drinking most of it. That’s gotta be worth something, right?     “East, are you even listening bru?” said Luke.   My head felt like it was pounding. I thought about the habits I was falling into. I guess it does always start by just tasting. Like when you skip a rock on water. It just touches the water for a while, just skims the water. But it falls in eventually.     “Bru, are you listening?” asked Luke. I nodded my head, running my fingers through my hair.     “Bru, he’s so wasted right now,” said Tony.     Everyone chuckled. We were all on the soccer field. We were not really playing soccer. We were just taking shots, and Tony was the goalie. Luke kicked the ball hard into Tony’s chest.     “Ow! You asshole,” cried Tony, his freckles disappearing from his flushed face. The field erupted with laughter, and there were only five of us.     “East, did you have a little drink last night?” asked Luke. I was going to answer, but I just ended up throwing up instead.     “Do you want something to eat, James?” asked my mom. I shook my head and went upstairs. I passed out on my bed, and when I woke up, it was around 5:00 I think. Mom would be out for yoga; where were Dan and Nick (my brothers)? Maybe that’s why I act out – I could have middle child syndrome, but somehow I highly doubt that. My brother started acting out first; he’s twenty-one now. He still lives at home, but he’s usually out, so I didn’t really wonder where he was. But poor Dan was only ten, so he shouldn’t be home alone. I went on my phone and scrolled through my contacts. I called Dan, and he picked up.     “Hey, where are you?” I asked.     “Nick and Luke picked me up to go get some food. We’ll be back in an hour,” he said, then he dropped abruptly. Kids sometimes…     So I was slowly recovering from some form of what appeared to be a hangover and sat up on my bed. I remembered that we were supposed to watch a movie for Drama today. Our Drama teacher wanted us to do a film study for this unit. So I needed to know about the film. You see, I was good at school, but cool enough not to show it in front of other people. You kind of just knew I was good at school, but I never said it. You never say if you’re good at school if you want to be part of our group. Luke was the leader, if we even had a leader. I was also basically the leader.     Anyways, I decided to call Lulu. Now that I think about it, I don’t know why I even called her. I was just thinking about her a lot. I don’t know why, but she seemed like she was a real person. I don’t know how to explain it. So I called her to ask about the film we were supposed to start that day. It rang a few times, then she picked up.     “Hey,” I said.     “Hi, Easton. What do you want?” she asked. She was crying.     “You’re terrible at small talk, you know,” I said.     “Ok, Easton. What do you want, huh?”     “Ok, jeez. I just wanted to know about the film we watched for Drama today. I was sick, remember?” I said.     “Yeah, you were something alright. We watched Titanic. It’s pretty long though, so we only got through the first 40 minutes or so.”     “Ok, do you have notes, Lulu?”     “Yeah, I have notes.”     “Can I come see you at your house? To get the notes,” I asked. I regretted that immediately after I said it.     “Yeah, I guess you could come today. I’ll wait just outside Llandudno. That’s where I live,” she said.     The Uber took me to the sign that said “Llandudno’’ just outside of Green Bay. I said thanks and closed the door. Sure enough Lulu was waiting by the sign. She was wearing faded out blue jeans and a yellow cable knit sweater. The sleeves went past her hands. As I walked closer to her, I realized two things: nobody knew where I was, and I was still wearing my school uniform.     “Hey,” she said. Her eyes were a little puffy.    When we got to her house, I realized how big it was. It was like a mansion, but she didn’t take me in through the front. Instead, we walked around through the back, and we went inside this small cottage. It was nice and clean with blue window frames and a matching blue desk. On the desk, there were notes spread across. We sat down by the desk, and I got out my notebook.     “Ok, here are my notes. You can write them down,” she said.     “Oh, can you write them in my book? My handwriting is terrible,” I said.     She nodded her head and started writing my notes for me.     “What are you humming?” I asked. Lulu was about halfway through writing my notes for me, and she wouldn’t stop humming the same tune.     “A song,” she replied.     “No shit,” I said, slightly irritated. More silence seemed to fill the room until she got up to get some water from the tiny kitchen.     “Do you want some water?” she asked.     “No,’’ I said it rather bluntly. I looked at the notes she was writing for me. They were too fucking neat.     “Shit, the teacher’s gonna know I didn’t write these,” I complained.     “Ok, so why don’t you just take a picture on your fancy little phone and go home?” she asked.     “No, no, just keep writing,” I said.     She did so, rolling her eyes the whole time. Once she was done, she kind of shoved it in my hand.     “Thanks. I’ll call an Uber,” I said.     She nodded her head and went back to her water. I realized the time was 7:37. I was probably supposed to be home.     “Do you wanna take a walk?” I asked. She looked at me like I was speaking German.     “No, Easton.”     So we walked all the way to the sign again that read “Welcome to Llandudno”. She waited with me for my Uber. It was pretty dark now and a rather awkward situation to just be standing by the highway with her. I looked behind me at the view of Llandudno, hills with houses scattered all over and a beautiful beach at the end. The water was so dark, with reflections of the house lights dancing all over it. I wondered why I was there with Lulu. Maybe I felt bad for her. Was she really having a panic attack or did she try to kill herself? When you think about shit like that, it makes you feel pretty sad.     “Thanks for the uh note thingies,” I said. Why did I say thingies?     “Ja ok,” she said.     The car came and I jumped in without saying goodbye.     “Here,” said my older brother, slyly handing me a packet of cigarettes behind his back. He was using his other hand to give Dan a slice of pizza. I grabbed the packet of cigarettes quickly and gave him R40. Then I went upstairs with Luke, who was watching what we were doing. We basically ate the whole pizza in two minutes. I eat like a horse sometimes.     “Why don’t you just vape? Cigarettes are so bad, bru,” said Luke.     He knew they were both just as bad. But vaping was cooler, so everyone vaped. I mean, not everyone. Obviously, goodie goodies like Lulu didn’t. I ignored Luke’s comment.     “So the groups have been picked at random using the class list. Remember to share the work equally. The details are on SchoolSavy,” said Mrs Ankola.     She read the list and sure enough, I was with Lulu and her stupid friend Mia. Ok, they were both very smart actually, but you know what I mean.     “RIP East,” Luke shouted. Almost everybody laughed, including me. I had to. Sometimes you just have to do things. So I sat down at a desk next to Mia and Lulu. They didn’t seem too happy that I had to sit next to them because I once accused Mia of eating dog, because she’s Asian. I didn’t make the joke actually. Luke did, but I had to laugh along, even if I thought it wasn’t funny. We all opened our laptops and went on SchoolSavy under Drama. The task was a summative assessment. We had to watch a film together and make a detailed film study poster. She taught us how to study a film after we watched Titanic. I liked that movie, please don’t tell my friends though. There was a list of more movies for us to watch, and we had to pick one.     Mia read out the list to Lulu and I: “Ok, so there’s Good Will Hunting, Forrest Gump, Hotel Rwanda, Stand By Me, Of Mice And Men, Dead Poets Society, Schindler’s List, Romeo and Juliet, and To Kill a Mockingbird.”     So because I’m in a group with a bunch of girls, they picked Romeo and Juliet. Lulu opened her laptop. An expensive Mac Air, like everybody else’s. I wondered how she got it. She wasn’t exactly rich like everybody else in our school. I mean, she was part of CFUI, which was a sort of charity that got you in our school, and our school would have these fundraiser events that all parents loved to go to because it would satisfy their white guilt or something. I’m not saying that most black people are poor. I’m just saying that most kids who did CFUI were black, that’s all.     “Where did you get that laptop?” I asked.     “From the store genius. Where else?” said Mia, quickly responding for Lulu.     Her friends seemed to do a lot of the talking for her.     “Um, so, are we gonna watch the old version or the nineties’ version?” asked Lulu, changing the subject.     “The old one would be more authentic, I guess,” said Mia. Lulu nodded her head.     After Drama, it was the end of the day, so Luke, Tony, Tom, Sam, Jules, Stephie and I were just fooling around on the tennis court before we had to go home. It was Friday, so we were having Luke’s big sleepover at his Llandudno house. Luke was super-rich, just like me. His Llandudno house had a whole separate one-story place attached to it which would be where everybody would be sleeping.     Anyways, Luke pulled me to the side while everybody else was talking. He was holding Stephie close to him. They were dating, and always holding hands, kissing and shit. So they were kissing right in front of me now.     “Did you two just bring me to the back of the court to make out in front of me?” I asked.     “No man,” said Stephie.     She had a raspy voice and black hair with striking blue eyes. Very pretty, we used to go out, but Luke doesn’t know. He didn’t need to know, anyways.     “You know Jules likes you, right,” Luke said.     I knew that I liked her too, I guess. Everyone wants us to date or whatever.     “Ja,” I said.     “Well you should make a move at the party ok,” said Luke. Then he walked away before I could say anything else.     So Luke’s party was fun. Not much to document, except that Jules and I are kind of a thing now. Like we kissed at the party and stuff. Jules is really beautiful. She has soft wispy hair that falls around her shoulders and freckles dotted across her cheeks and green eyes. Plus, she was from Brazil, so she had a really pretty accent. I had myself the perfect girlfriend.     I guess I should write a little more about how we started “dating” but there’s just not much to say. I asked her why she liked me because I don’t really talk much, so it’s not like she knew a lot about me. She said that I was cute and sweet. She also said that she liked that I was quiet because it meant that she could do all the talking. I don’t really know how to feel about the last one.     I’m just glad that Luke interrupted us at that moment for dinner because I didn’t know how to reply if she asked me the same question. Just imagine she said, “So East, why do you like me?” and then I just said, “Uh, I don’t know.” That would have been so awkward. I mean, she’s really pretty, and she’s funny, I think. Her hair also smells nice. But you can’t just say things like that because that’s weird. So you just don’t say anything at all.     So we were all sitting on the bench together. I had my arm around Jules and whatever when Mia and Lulu walked over. Lulu looked different but the same. Her hair was in loose braids and she was wearing her socks just under her knees. Not a lot of girls wore it like that. She looked really nice. Anyways Mia told me that we needed to set up a time to meet and watch the movie together. The one for Drama class.     “Oh, it’s the lesbos,” said Luke.     They weren’t lesbian. Luke just said that for no reason. Everybody started laughing. Damn, if only you saw Lulu’s eyes. She looked so sad, or more than usual.     “Easton, just look at your messages,” said Mia, ignoring Luke’s comment.     They walked away.     “Just search ‘uptight Asian lesbo’ on your phone, and you’ll find her text,” said Luke.     Jules laughed. I did too; I had to.     So that weekend, I had to meet Mia at her house, she sent me the directions and everything. I was thinking of walking there so that I could be a little late. She lived in this big estate pretty close to Llandudno. So we were supposed to meet at 9:00, but I was going to come at 10:00 or so. Anyways, I told my mom, who was putting on her fake smile, the one that she always did when Dad came back home. She offered to drop me, but I said no. I needed to clear my head, plus it was going to be Jules’ birthday party soon, on the 20th of November. I didn’t know what to get her, maybe a necklace or something.     I was walking to Mia’s house and I was feeling odd. It felt like there was a big apple lodged in my throat. I don’t know why I feel like that sometimes. I mean, on Thursday, I said something rude to Lulu, but I had to. We said a few jokes; they were “racist”, I guess. It was towards Lulu, Mia and her friend Chloe. It doesn’t matter anyway. I won’t write that part down.     Mia’s house was large, with a neatly mowed lawn and two Mercedes parked by the driveway. I knocked on the big oakwood door and Mia opened it. The smell of coffee escaped from her house. I said hi, she didn’t say hi back. Instead, she just walked me into her house and up the stairs. Then she closed the door; her room was massive! Perfectly carpeted with a big balcony and a large TV. There were two beds in her room and Lulu was stretched across one of them, reading something. She was wearing chequered green pants and a black camisole, so she was in her PJs, which means she slept over.     Mia finally broke the silence. “You’re late,” she said.     So we were watching the movie, they were sitting on their beds, and I was sitting on the chair, not really wanting to be there, but I had to. So once we finished the movie, Lulu showed us the notes she took. That’s what she was in charge of because she had nice handwriting. Then Mia left the room to go photocopy the notes, so we could all have it in our Drama books. Lulu and I were left alone in Mia’s room for a while.     “You slept over,” I asked. She nodded her head, not really looking at me but focusing on her phone. Which was some cheap Android, might I add.     “Did you like the movie?” I asked.     I didn’t even know why I was talking; it’s not like I could talk to her at school. She didn’t answer and that pissed me off.     “You know I don’t need to be nice to you,” I said.     She sighed, “I just can’t figure you out, I really just can’t. You’re nice but then you’re a total… a total douche. I just don’t get it,” she said.    I was surprised because she was quite loud.     “Whatever, legit nobody cares about your opinion. You barely exist. It’s sad, pretty damn sad,” I said.     She didn’t say anything, but a tear streamed down her face. I was starting to feel slightly uncomfortable, so I was glad when Mia walked in.     I got up when I couldn’t take the screaming anymore. Dad had come back home. He owned a company called Softdrinks, so naturally he was always busy. But he also didn’t come home a lot. He kind of just stayed at hotels and stuff. When he came back home, he was always drunk or hungover. I don’t really want to get into it that much. So it was really late and they were shouting. I rolled out of bed to check on Dan, and he was in his room crying. Fuck, I hate it when people cry. So I kind of grabbed him by the arm to take him to see what was going on. Our family wasn’t very affectionate, you see. I found Mom and Dad in the kitchen.     “YOU DON’T COME HOME FOR TWO WEEKS, PETER!” Mom screamed. She seemed really pissed.     Dad looked really wasted, I mean he was kind of tripping over shit you know. Anyways, Dan was still crying and shit, so I had to pick him up and kind of cradle him like a fucking baby.     “Mom please calm down,” I asked.     Dad took the plates from the kitchen counter and threw them all on the ground. Then he started to giggle. Mom was screaming at him now; it was super tense.     “Mom, please chill,” I calmly asked.     She was just screaming now, no words, just noise. Then she threw a plate at me. Naturally, she missed and it crashed on the floor next to me. To be honest, I snapped. Dad was still laughing, Dan was crying, and Mom was still screaming. So I kind of shoved Dan into Mom’s arms.    “HERE’S YOU FUCKING SON, BOTH OF YOU NEED TO GROW THE FUCK UP! I CAN”T DEAL WITH THIS SHIT ANYMORE,” I screamed. Then I ran for it. I wasn’t so sure where I was going. But I wasn’t gonna come back home.     So I walked all the way to the beach. I sat down on a bench and watched the waves come close and go back. Nobody was there except me and some strange looking hobo sleeping on another bench. So I lit a cigarette from the untouched packet my brother had given to me. I liked smoking cigarettes because it made me seem cool. Sounds kinda stupid, I guess, but that’s the truth of it. Anyways, I was thinking about Jules. I just didn’t know what to get her. You know, in my opinion, I think girls are pretty dumb. Like, they have too much emotion, you know. They’re too worried about being pretty and shit, and they want guys to be good boyfriends, like most of us give two shits. I don’t know, that’s just my opinion. I decided I’d get her a necklace. I didn’t know where I would get it though, so I started to lie horizontally on the bench. Trying to sleep and all, but I couldn’t. It was freezing. The cold air just kept on biting at my skin. So I was just staring at the deep blue water. Wondering what lurked beneath.     “Umm, Easton. Are you ok?” asked a soft voice. I felt a finger gently poke my cheek. I quickly wiped the sticky drool off my face and sat up. Lulu was staring at me with those big hazel eyes.     “Were you sleeping here?” she asked.     Poor thing, she was honestly concerned for other people, like anybody in this world gave a shit about others.     “Ja, I was, and I still would be if you didn’t wake me,” I said.     She rolled her eyes and started to walk away.     “Wait. What are you gonna do today?” I asked. To be honest, I was really bored even though I had just woken up. I didn’t want to go back home. She shrugged.     “I don’t know,” she replied.     I was silent for a while.     “Do you want to take a walk?” I asked.     She shrugged again. So I stood up and we walked along the shore. She was very quiet. I think she was remembering what a douche I had been to her the last time we spoke.     “Um, what I said. Was totally not um cool, I guess. So I’m sorry, I guess,” I said.     Silence.     “Well, I forgive you. I guess,” she said eventually.     I chuckled. The soft sand of my feet made me remember how much I hated the beach. I only hated it because of my fucking parents. When Dad “taught” me how to swim, he was super irritated with a mix of drunk. Not to mention my Dad can be absolutely batshit crazy sometimes. That’s the only way to describe it. So he kind of dragged me into the water even though I really didn’t want to swim. I was choking on the saltwater and kicking and he was just shouting at me. He was shouting really loud. I hate shouting. I really hate shouting. I needed to get off this fucking beach.     “Do you want to run away?” I asked Lulu.     She looked confused.       “I mean, just for a day, we could walk somewhere really far,” I suggested.     I felt around my soccer shorts for my wallet. I had a credit card in it and R20 cash. Now I knew I had enough money because my credit card got R500 in it every month, thanks to my Mom. So I had about R1 050, I think.     “Where would we go then,” said Lulu, as though she was humouring the idea of a little kid.     “Just follow me ok,” I said.     She smiled and walked behind me. When we got off the beach onto the road, I realized that I didn’t have my phone with me, which meant I couldn’t get an Uber.     “How do we get out of here?” I asked Lulu.     “I guess we’ll take a phela,” said Lulu. I had no idea what that was.     She grabbed me by the wrist to lead me to the front part of Checkers. It was covered by trees, and there were so many cars there. Everything was happening so fast. Different people were getting into the cars, all shouting in Xhosa or something. I felt like a little child confused at the mall. Lulu with her hand still clutching mine led me to a white car. About four people were getting into the car at once and one guy was standing in front of it. She started talking to him in Zulu or Xhosa or some other African language. He let us in. We had to sit in the back seat, though. It was a pretty shitty car. I was being squished next to a fat lady. The car started moving around Hout Bay. It was so bumpy. I was amazed that the car could move at all. Lulu took ten rand from me.     “Uh uh, twenty,” said the taxi driver, at least that’s all I heard. Then Lulu started to argue with him in the African language. Meanwhile, the three people at the front were playing on their phones with each other. The fat lady offered me some gum. I took it; it was chappies gum, the flavour vanished in a few seconds. Then the fat lady said something in the African language and fanned herself with her hand. People laughed at her. Finally, Lulu was done arguing with the taxi driver and handed the lady in front of us ten rand. The lady in front of us handed it to the taxi driver. Lulu didn’t know that lady. Why did she trust her? Why didn’t she wonder if that lady would take the ten rand for herself? Pretty dumb, I thought.     The car went around Mandela Park for a while and dropped the other people off. It was so dirty. I know that makes me sound like a snob or whatever, but it really was filthy. Everybody was walking on the street, some people were staring at me, some were frying chicken feet or some other meat. But as soon as the taxi left Mandela Park, I felt sad. I wanted to see more. I instantly missed it, even if that sounds strange. Anyways, soon we were on the road along Llandudno. One side was the ocean, and the other was the mountains. It was just Lulu and me in the back of the car now.     In an Uber, it would have been silent, but in this car, the music was playing loud. Shity music too, in a shitty car with a shitty driver. The whole experience was shitty, but I kind of liked it. So the taxi driver beeped at some guy waving at him, and the guy got in the front seat and gave him some money. The guy was sloshed by the way, absolutely off his face with drunkenness. He was slurring something in the African language and then turned to look out. As he pointed at me, more slurs escaped his mouth. Lulu clearly thought this was funny because she started very silently laughing into my shoulder. She was probably trying not to laugh at his face and whatever. She was really laughing hard, like a little kid. I don’t laugh like a little kid; my laugh is almost always fake. Fuck, that was depressing. I guess watching somebody laugh is depressing in like, a deeper sense or whatever.     We got out after the drunk man, all the way at Sea Point. The drunk man kind of shoved himself out of the moving car. He toppled over and crawled to the pavement. This caused Lulu to giggle even more. I tried to laugh too. I managed a stiff chuckle. Anyways, we got out at Sea Point, by all the stores and whatever. So we just started walking in silence. We both didn’t really know where we were gonna go. Cars were driving by, people were smiling. The restaurants smelled like food. I was surprised how many people were out at seven or eight in the morning. The sky was a baby blue now, no clouds.     “Better than an Uber, don’t you think?” asked Lulu.     She wasn’t looking at me when we talked. She had the habit of doing that.     “Ja, it’s definitely an experience,” I said.     She chuckled. “I’ve been riding phelas all my life,” she said.     “Pella, what does that mean?” I asked.     “Cockroach. It makes sense, they don’t really drive, I guess. They crawl around the streets. No matter how many times they get damaged, they still manage to drive. I remember once a phela broke down, and the guy in front had to push it from behind to get it to have momentum again. I thought that was pretty cool.”     It must have been about an hour of us walking together. She was walking on the pavement thing that blocked the ocean waves from coming on the road. I was worried she was going to fall in. We hadn’t talked at all, but I was kind of just looking at her. God, that sounds stalkerish. She just seemed like she was thinking about something really hard. Her one eyebrow would raise and then go down. Or she would move her hands as if she was in a deep conversation with somebody. But then she went back to humming, the same tune she always hummed, at least that’s what it sounded like. We were walking past all the restaurants and malls and stuff. I could see a McDonalds in the distance. My brother took me there once. Our car smelled like weed because he was smoking it. Mom got so angry, but Nick took the blame.     “Do you love Jules?” Lulu asked, stopping my train of thought.     I stared blankly. “We just started dating, like three weeks ago,” I said.     She shook her head. “Sometimes you really disgust me, no offence.”     I stared. “Why?” I asked, trying my best not to sound offended.     “Well, just because you’ve had intercourse with Jules and you’re only fifteen,” she said. What teenager says intercourse?    I laughed like I was supposed to. Jules and I hadn’t done anything, but I couldn’t tell her that. But I couldn’t lie either. So I would just say a whole lot of nothing.     “Who told you that?” I asked. She was silent for a while.    “Chloe told me. But she heard it from James A, who heard it from Tony or something. Tony heard it from you apparently,” she explained.     Tony was talking a bunch of shit.     “Wow, a lot of people are involved in Jules and my personal shit,” I said. I didn’t say anything further. I just left her to assume.     “Fifteen is too young, Easton. It’s also illegal,” she said.     “Well, just don’t listen to rumours from little gay shits,” I said. I was referring to James A.     James A and I used to be friends in preschool and whatever, but then he started to hang out with the nerdy computer kids, so now he’s gay. I don’t actually think he’s gay. He’s just weird, so he’s gay. You know, like how Lulu is weird and ugly, so she’s a lesbo. I mean, I think she’s kind of pretty and whatever. But nobody else does, so yeah. That’s just how things are. I’m not homophobic or anything.     “Easton, that’s homophobic,” she said.     I sighed. “I can be racist and sexist too. Which one would you prefer?”     I don’t know why I said that. It just sort of spilt out, I guess. She didn’t talk after that.     Churchhaven, I like that place. My parents own a house there. It’s super nice. There is a beach and not a lot of people. Sometimes I go there with Luke because he also owns a house there. We just sit on the beach and talk and fool around. The water is always so clear and quite warm. It’s the only beach I like. God, I missed that place. I wanted to go there. I needed to be there. “You wanna go to one of my houses?” I asked, not realizing how much of a rich kid I sounded like. She sighed, “Sure, anything goes today, I guess,” she said. We walked a little further. We had just passed McDonalds, and I realized that we were in need of a ride.     “So how do we get there?” I asked.     “Well, we could always go to the taxi rank,” she said.      The taxi rank was damp. Damp and smelly and cheap, it was shitty. But not shitty in a funny way, sort of a weird shitty vibe. Even Lulu looked uncomfortable, but in a less showy way, I guess. So these taxis or phelas or whatever were big and white with the South African flag colors on the side. There was some negotiation with the taxi driver, and then we got in the car. She gave him a scrambled up R50, which was in the lining of her bra. We sat at the back by a window. We were quite squished together and shit. She smelled like frying food. It was a nice smell, it kind of made me hungry. It reminded me of one of my favourite afternoons.     My favourite afternoon happened the day after the worst night of my life. I don’t remember it well. I was eleven. Dad was being mean the night before he slapped Nick across the face and threw a glass at my leg. At least he didn’t do anything to Dan.     Anyway, the next day I woke up on my Mom’s lap. Dad was making pancakes, bacon, ice cream and strawberries. Dan and Nick were already sitting by the table to eat. Mom was stroking my hair, and I had just realized the huge plaster that was covering my calf. They pretended like nothing happened the night before. We just ate food and Mom and Dad told us a story about when they first met. I couldn’t walk on my calf without it hurting, so Mom had carried me to the table. We all stuffed our faces and Mom and Dad were smiling. That day felt like it was shot in a movie with a honey-colored lens. That day was the last time I ever cried. It was the last time we all ate breakfast together. The last time I saw Dad kiss Mom on the cheek. The last time we all said “I love you” to each other. It was a sort of happiness no movie, book or song can capture. It felt like nothing could be so bad. I miss that day. I miss smiling without having to like, force it, I guess.    “Easton. Easton are you ok?” asked a voice. Mom? I was sleeping on her lap and my eyes were still closed. It was that honey-colored afternoon again. I smelled food, not pancakes. Something else. I opened my eyes slowly. I was still in the fucking taxi. I could see the back of the seat. I could smell food, but also perfume. So many people were talking but all amongst themselves. I was drooling again. But on someone’s jeans. Must have been Lulu. Gross, I wanted to get up, but I couldn’t. I just couldn’t. I was so fucking tired that I couldn’t do anything. I just drifted off to sleep.     I woke up when I felt fingers tapping on my head. I sat up and immediately felt embarrassed. She was holding two vetkoeks.     “The auntie gave me two. Take one,” she said.     I don’t know why she called that skinny lady sitting close to us auntie. They weren’t related. I looked at the lady and said thank you. Then I took a bite. Damn, that was the best vetkoek I ever tasted. It had ham or something inside and it was so warm and salty. People were talking, all in the African language, music was also playing from the radio. I knew it was the radio because it said: “This is Radio 3000,” or something like that. Then the taxi stopped somewhere in Millerton. It was also a township but with a lot of colored people. Luke puts on a colored accent sometimes and says, “Dames.” I laugh when he does that.     Anyway, the taxi stopped and some colored people walked in. Some of them smelled like alcohol. I wondered what my Mom would do if she saw me with Lulu in the taxi. She would probably have a fit or something. Then I realized I had no idea what I was actually doing, it was strange. I had absolutely no control over what was going to happen next.     It had been about an hour in that taxi when we stopped in a place called Yzerfontein. It was quite nice looking with the pretty water and the sand and all the people smiling and shit. I looked over at Lulu, she wasn’t sleeping, but she was kind of just zoning out, I guess. She looked over at me and whispered in my ear, “Easton, we need to get off here. I don’t have any more money, so we’re gonna need to run off,” she explained.     Then she stood up and walked all the way to the driver’s seat. There weren’t many people in the car now, just five or eight. So we walked all the way to the driver’s seat, and Lulu must have told the driver that we would be getting off at the next stop or something. The next stop was only like, a kilometer away. So once he stopped, almost everybody got out. Then he looked at Lulu and opened his hand as if she was supposed to give him something, most likely money. That’s when she grabbed my hand and ran for it.     I’ve never ran so fast in my life, and because of all the cigarettes and shit, I was breathing pretty heavy. It’s a good thing that it was just a straight road because I think I would have passed out if we had to run uphill. The taxi driver was behind us, shouting in the African language and shit. Lulu ran off the road behind a huge dune of sand that had green hair, ok it was probably grass, but it really looked like hair. So we crouched behind the dune, and I heard the taxi guy drive away.   We took a moment to catch our breath, and I could hear the sound of the waves crashing against something, then people laughing. My breathing was finally stable. I looked over at Lulu, who had a grin spread across her face. I lit a cigarette and offered it to her. She shook her head.     “My mother’s going to klap me,” she said with a knowing smile on her face.     I laughed. “I can’t go back home. I just can’t,” I said.     I awkwardly held her hand. Not like how I hold Jules’ hand. Like how you hold a friend’s hand, I guess, but I don’t know how to hold a friend’s hand. It’s not like Luke and I hold hands ever, shit I don’t even hold my Mom’s hand. But I just sort of held her hand, without it being romantic or awkward or with any meaning behind it. I guess very few things really have any meaning behind it. Or maybe everything has meaning behind it. I don’t know; I’ll find out one day.     When we decided the coast was clear, Lulu and I continued to walk down the road. It was such a long road. Like, really fucking long. It felt like this town was just a random place in the middle of nowhere. We needed a lift to Churchhaven but there were no taxis. Lulu and I decided to hitchhike, the only problem was that we could get kidnapped or something. But anyways, we were walking down that long road. We were still holding hands, just sort of sleepily going nowhere. When I turned my head to look back, I saw a black Jeep from a distance. It was blasting music pretty loud. I held my thumbs up for a lift. Sure enough, they pulled over towards us. Two girls were in the car, probably in their early twenties. They were both pretty, Jules type of pretty. The one who was driving had long blonde hair and sunglasses. The other had red curly hair and freckles.     “Aweh,” I said, turning up my charm to one hundred. The red-head did the aweh sign.     The one with blonde hair nodded her head, “Where are you guys going?” she said. She had a mild Afrikaans accent.     “Around Langebaan, could you give us a lift?” I asked.     She smiled, “Ja, hop in.”     The windows were rolled all the way down, it was hot and sunny, and Juice WRLD was singing about doing cocaine. Running away wasn’t as bad as I thought.     “So are you two like boyfriend and girlfriend?” the driver girl asked.     “Ja sure,” I said, too lazy to explain.     “How old are you guys anyways?” she said.     Lulu had refrained from speaking; she just stared out the window.     “Old enough,” I snarkily replied.     The car soon started to fill up with useless small talk, what rapper we liked, our names, where we were going, how we were getting there, and so on. Yet I felt at home in that car with the strange girls.    I guess it seems a little douchey to say that I can figure people out. I can’t, but I can figure my sort of people out. I can tell which person has had money in their family for a while, or if they had just gotten money. I suppose I can break down my “group” or whatever. There are some categories I like to use. You don’t use them in public or tell them that you use them. Shit, don’t tell my friends that will make me seem weird or whatever. Anyways, you get the rich kid like the super-rich. You know what I mean, they’ve had money in their family for ages. Or the kid who just became rich, like their parents had to actually work for their money. Long lines of smoking and drinking, maybe it’s just my friends and family. Usually, the super-rich kids’ parents are super depressed. The kids were raised by their maids or whatever. Shit, I was raised by my maid. I guess I never mentioned her. Mavis, that’s her name. She’s an old, slightly fat black lady. She has a very kind face, and she cooks for me all the time. I never greet her anymore. I don’t know why. When I think about things like this, it makes me really sad, or happy, sort of somewhere in between.     Once I directed the two girls to the Churchhaven gates, they dropped us off. I told the two girls I would see them later, then I winked and did the aweh sign. I know it’s cheesy, but that’s just what you do. Lulu got out of the car and closed it shut behind her. The girls drove away. We turned around and looked at the gates. There was a fat colored security guard. The road was long behind the gate. You could see all the lavish greens on the one side and all the little houses on the other. Next to the houses, you could see the beach. The blue waters dazzled like diamonds. But all of that was so far away. A long walk away. God, that was the shit the English teacher wanted me to do. You know, descriptive writing. Apparently, I have “great potential”. What bullshit.     “Howzit?” I said to the security guard. He kind of just stared at me.     “Can you open the gate then? I have a house here,” I explained.     He raised an eyebrow and moved from his chair to get a clipboard. He scanned the clipboard.     “Name?” he asked.     “James Easton,” I said. He scanned the clipboard again.     “K, Dames you can go in. Is this girl coming with you?” he asked.     He didn’t look at Lulu though.     I nodded my head. Then he lifted the boom gate so that we could walk in.     After about twenty minutes of walking, my ankles started hurting. I could feel a terrible clamping feeling. It was so hot, I pushed my hair back and looked at Lulu. She was wearing loosish jeans and a grey hoodie. I don’t know why I only noticed that now. I guess I’m not that observant. I took out a cigarette and lit it. Then I blew the smoke in Lulu’s face.     “Your lungs are going to shrivel up very soon,” she said.     I smiled. She always looked a little more pretty when she was irritated. Not that that was important or anything.     “Tell me a story,” I asked.     She sighed then asked what type.     “I don’t know, I‘m bored,” I said, between puffs.     She told me a story and she had such a soft voice as she told it, so I kept on having to ask her to repeat herself. So the story was basically about Early Years at school. She was remembering the time we used to play “kissy girls”. It was a stupid game; you ran around after the girls and tried to kiss them. It’s actually kind of creepy, I guess. But we were five, so it doesn’t really matter.     After another thirty minutes of walking, we were finally at the house. There was no car in the driveway, which looked kinda strange. I was actually surprised that the security guard let us in. The house was medium-sized, I guess. It had a baby blue roof and white walls. Inside there was a room upstairs that clearly looked over the whole house. Down the hall, there was my parents’ room on the left, and Dan’s room to the right. The room that looked over the whole house was my room. The kitchen was the first thing you saw, to the right. To the left was the sitting room. And straight in front of us was the porch that looked right at the beach, or lagoon or whatever.     Lulu looked around the house, the way a child looks at Toys R Us because they know that nothing there is theirs. She sat down on the couch. It kind of made me feel uncomfortable that we were in that house alone. I sat next to her; I tried to sleep. She took off her sweater. I didn’t notice that half of her chest was covered in freckles. Since it was a croptop, I realized that half of her stomach was covered in freckles too.    “Birthmarks,” she explained when she realized I was staring. I walked to the fridge without talking and scanned it. There was plenty of shit in that fridge, some of it was eaten too, like somebody had been staying there, but the family hadn’t been there since last December. I grabbed a can of beer from the fridge, I opened it and took a sip. I didn’t really like beer, but I did like the “rewarding” feeling of drinking it. Not like I’m an alcoholic or anything.    So I walked down the hall to my parents’ room, and the bed wasn’t made. I looked around the room. I saw a jersey and some of Dad’s clothes on the floor. I knew Dad came here sometimes, but I didn’t know he sort of lived here, that shit’s just messed up. I sort of chugged the beer then threw the can on the floor. I burped really loudly and wiped the remaining beer off my face. I heard footsteps and Lulu peered at me through the doorway. Then she opened it all the way.     “Easton?” she asked. I started breathing really fast, I felt like I was trapped in my own body, but like I was small, and my body was this room that I was stuck in. Like I couldn’t function. I dropped to the floor and started screaming, I was screaming really loud.     I stopped screaming when Lulu started to snap her fingers in front of my face, the thing you do when somebody zones out.     “What are you doing?” she asked. It seemed that I was sitting cross-legged on the floor. I was so confused, I shook my face loose and stood up.     “Sorry about the screaming,” I said.     Lulu picked up the beer can. “What screaming? You were just sitting there, just staring at the window,” she said.     I was sure as hell that I was screaming.     “You know, you have a lot of stuff in the fridge. If you want I could cook something. I mean, I don’t know how long you want to stay here. I don’t really care,” she said.     “Well, I’m starving, so yeah,” I said.     She walked to the kitchen, humming that same fucking tune. I think I should try to stop swearing now.     So I sat down on the couch again and kind of just stared at the roof. It was white and clean. I wondered if my mom would report me missing. I wondered if it would go on the news as I thought about it some more. We would get a lift to a nearby town. I would draw the cash, and Lulu and I would hit the road. We could live by the beach and catch fish for the rest of our lives. We could make a water purifier. I remember when we made those in Year Six. That would be cool. I knew why I didn’t want to go back home, but I had no idea why Lulu didn’t want to go back home. I turned around and lay on my stomach so that I could see Lulu. She was actually quite pretty. Not that I care or anything; she was alright, is what I mean.     Anyways, she seemed to be very busy frying something.     “I’ve never seen this much expensive stuff in my life,” she said.     She took out the salmon and cut it on a cutting board. The smell of frying onions filled the room. I don’t know why I wrote that down. It’s not important, I guess.     The pan made a hissing sound as Lulu put the salmon in the oil. I smiled at her reaction to the hot oil getting on her skin.     “Why are you running away?” I asked. She sighed, then poured water into a pot. I waited in anticipation as she added potatoes to the pot. I think she was crying. God, I hate crying. I nodded my head. I don’t actually like talking much. Jules always says that it makes me quite boring. “We can’t just kiss all day East,” she’ll say when I nod my head at her predictable questions. I got some open champagne from the fridge and poured what remained into two glasses.     “Have a sip,” I insisted.     She shook her head and then she turned off both of the pots.     The sound fizzled away into silence.     “Eat, and I’ll think about it,” she said.     It must have been 1:00 in the afternoon. I have never eaten so fast in my life. I forgot that I hadn’t really had a full meal in a while. I eat like a horse sometimes, I really do. Anyways, once we were done eating, she put the plates in the sink. Damn, I never put my plates in the sink. Anyways, once she was done, she just sat down and stared.     “Do you think anybody is looking for us?” she asked.     I sighed, “I hope not.” Then I jumped up and went to sit next to her. It was getting really hot to be honest. I felt overheated. I asked her if she wanted to go to the beach, she agreed.     There were only old people at the beach, except for one couple that was like forty or something. I guess forty is pretty old, but I don’t think there is a certain age when you get old. I think being old is just a mindset. Or something like that.     “What are you thinking about?” asked Lulu.     I shook my head.     We didn’t go into the water, we just sat on the sand and stared. I remembered the last time Lulu was in the water, and she had some sort of panic attack or something.     “How the fuck do you have a controlled panic attack?” I asked.     She looked confused. “What are you talking about?”     “You. When you nearly drowned. It looked like you were drowning on purpose,” I said.     She sighed, “Why do you care anyway? It really isn’t your problem, Easton... Yoh, like just shut up for once.”     I guess that‘s fair.     So we got back to the house. We were kind of just silent and Lulu passed out on the couch. So I got thirsty and went to pour myself a glass of water, but the tap wouldn’t work. I kept on opening it wider, but it wouldn’t work.     “Oh fuck,” I said.     It would be impossible for us to stay here for long if we didn’t have water. The place was pretty old, so that was the only tap that had drinkable water. The rest was like, borehole or whatever.     “Why are you swearing?” asked Lulu, who was half sleeping.     “The taps are broken.”     She slowly got up and looked at the tap. Then she started to loosen it and then tighten it. I‘m not so sure why. It’s not like she could fix it.     She fixed it.     ”Do you ever get scared?” she asked.     “Of what?” I replied. I was a bit annoyed that she fixed it and I didn’t.     “I don’t know, getting older,” she said.     Silence.    “What’s to get scared of? I can legally drink and I can buy my own cigarettes.”     She sighed. “Of course, I forgot that your life is practically handed to you.”     “Shut the fuck up. I hate it when people say that. What does that even mean?”     “It means that you don’t have to work hard at anything,” she said calmly.     “That has its own problems,” I admitted.     “Like what, Easton?” she said.     “I don’t know. It gets pretty boring. It’s like, no matter what I do, I don’t get in trouble. So then you can just do anything and nothing happens.”     “Easton, what could possibly be wrong with that?” she chuckled.     “Everything! I can do everything, what’s right about that? But you wouldn’t understand because saying stuff like that makes me sound like a douche.”     “Well, maybe that’s because you are one. Look East, maybe it’s boring for both sides. I’m just saying you don’t have to act like your friends. You could be better than that.”     No, I couldn’t.      Anyways that’s pretty much all to report from my failed attempt to run away. My mom figured out where I was and picked me up at Churchhaven. Lulu was dropped off by Mandela Park. She didn’t live there, but Mom never really bothered to ask.     “What is wrong with you James? Huh?” asked Mom.     I didn’t reply. I looked out of the window. I watched the setting transition from poor township to rich and lavish estate. It made me hate myself for a few moments.     “JAMES!” Mom shouted.     “What?” I said.     She started talking about me and my life choices and whatever. Then she said something about how she knows it’s hard, the usual bullcrap. I got out of the car and went straight to my room. I knew I had school the next day. I looked at my phone. I had about a thousand WhatsApp and Instagram notifications. I didn’t care though.     “What is this?” asked Mom. She woke me up and shoved the cigarettes in my face. Must have fallen out of my pocket.     “Thanks,” I said and took the pack from her.     She watched in horror as I used my lighter to light my cigarette. Then I blew some smoke in her face. I think she was about to cry. I smiled. She slapped me through the face so hard that the cigarette fell out of my mouth. She grabbed it and threw it out of the window.     “James, this needs to stop. I don’t want you smoking in this house again,’ she said.     Then she walked out of the door.     “Fuck you,” I said.     I don’t know why I said that, but I knew there was nothing she could do. I walked downstairs and I saw Mavis (our maid). She was getting old. Anyways she made me a sandwich which I ate quickly. We didn’t talk though. I don’t like talking much anyways.     I caught up with Luke at school. I didn’t tell him about Lulu though. Then I talked with Jules; she kissed me on the cheek. We all started planning the next time all of us would meet up. When the bell rang, we didn’t go to class right away, we started mimicking TikTok dances and laughing our asses off instead. I was finally home.     “Are you ok, East?” asked Luke. I felt kind of bad for my mom, like I was a really bad son. I mean, I guess all teenagers are “rebellious” or whatever, but I felt like I was just another person reading from the script. Does that make sense? I guess I felt like what I said to her was the same shit that Luke, Tony, Sam or Tom would say to their Moms. It was like we were all the same person.     “East.” We would all grow up to have the same lives, even if they were different, they would be the same.     “EAST.” I guess I didn’t really have a personality. I just said what I was supposed to say, and did what I was supposed to do.     “EASTON.” Not that I always made the “right” choices, but it was what I was supposed to do, I guess.     “JAMES EASTON,” Luke, Tony, Tom, Sam, Jules and Stephie shouted.     “Jesus, why are all of you shouting in my fucking face?” I asked.     “Bruh, we’ve been saying your name though,” said Luke.     “Oh,” I said.     “Babe, are you ok?” asked Jules.     I nodded my head.     Sam looked at his phone, “Oh shit, we missed history,” he said.     Damn, Mr Kehnie was going to kill us.     “How was school?” Mom asked. She had just picked me up from school.     “Fine,” I said.     “How’s Julie?” Mom asked.     How did she know about Jules?     “Her Mom told me. I didn’t know you had a girlfriend,” she said.     “Uh huh,” I said.     “Her Mom actually invited us over for dinner,” she said.     “Ok,” I said.     “Mom, do you want to take me to lunch now, we could go to a restaurant? If you want,” I asked.     “Oh, ok,” she said. She sounded very surprised.     I realized that Mom and I didn’t really ever have conversations longer than two minutes. She talked about school when she was younger and all the “shenanigans”‘ (I think that word is pretty cringy) she and her friends got up to. I always find it interesting to watch people while they talk. Even though Mom was looking at me, it looked like she was looking far away. Mom was actually really pretty. She had long honey blonde hair that was always braided. She had grey eyes and a really pretty smile. I wondered if Dad said she was pretty. Then I remembered my art project. We were supposed to draw somebody, but very realistically. I thought that I’d draw Mom. Her school stories made her sound like Jules. I wondered if I’d marry Jules, then I’d probably become a cheating alcoholic too. I guess we all become like our parents, and if we try not to, we’re just more like them than ever.     After lunch, I went to Luke’s house and we did some skating and smoked some cigarettes. When I went home, I tried to do my homework, but my brain was kind of distracted. I managed to do the sketch of Mom though, I painted it and everything. It looked just like a picture. I didn’t show the painting to her though, that’s kind of gay. Anyways, I realised Dad wasn’t home. I forgot that he had to go to Joburg for a work thing. I couldn’t sleep that night. At around four in the morning, I went on my phone. I looked at Lulu’s WhatsApp; she was online. So I called her even though it was late, or early I guess.     “Easton, why are you calling me?” she asked. She sounded a bit sleepy.     “No reason, I just wanted to,” I said. I asked her if she got in trouble, and she said yes. Then she told me she was really tired. It was an awkward conversion, I guess. I don’t remember much, but I do remember saying, “Do you remember that stupid little prank we used to do when we were younger?”     “What?”     “You know, we would ask other people to spell out ‘I cup’. It spelt ‘I see you pee’, and we used to giggle about it for hours. You remember that, right?” I asked. I think I was feeling nostalgic. We just learnt about that word the other day.     “I remember that, actually. Lol, that was so random,” she said.     It was random, I guess. She started laughing the way she always did.     “Yoh, you’re so weird, Easton. Like, I thought you were a ‘cool’ guy and whatever, but you’re just weird,” she said between bursts of laughter.     “Well, your friend Chloe is weird too. Isn’t she a furry?” I asked.     Lulu laughed, “Yeah, she is.”     “Is she like, attracted to dogs or something?“ I asked.     “Easton, you can’t say things like that; it’s mean,” she said. Her tone was serious.     “Oh,’ I said. She started laughing.     “I’m just kidding. You sounded like you cared for once,” she said, but in a jokey way. I started laughing too.     “It’s lovely, Easton. Amazing attention to detail in the eyes. Ja, it’s lovely,” said Mr Black. It was the next day, and I was at art class. Mr Black (our art teacher) made everybody show him our progress on our “artworks.” I thought that after the compliment, he would let me go back to my seat, but instead he decided to show my “artwork” to the whole class.     “Is that your Mom, East?” asked Luke.     Everybody started laughing. God, when’s the last time I felt embarrassed?     “Luke, why the fuck are you staring at my Mom? Fucking creep, is that why you’re always coming to my house?” I said.     We were just playing around and all, but Mr Black thought it wasn’t too funny, and he sent me to our principal’s office.     I made sure it took a while to get there because I was feeling a little dorky after I put so much effort into my “artwork”, so I sort of hung around the older girls for a bit. I think they were doing drama because they were reading off a script. I grabbed a script from the cutest girl’s hand and started running and reciting the lines. She ran after me. “Oh my god, stop it,” she said. But we were just fooling around. So I must have been flirting with those girls for about five minutes when we all got bored of each other, so I decided to go to the principal’s office.     I was walking down the hallway to his office and whatever, but I ran into Lulu. She was just walking out of Miss Zilon’s office. She looked drained, I never really understood what looking drained meant, but now I do. It sort of looked like somebody had taken a tube and sucked all the air out of her. I know that sounds dramatic, but that’s just what it looked like. She didn’t even look at me; she just walked right past me. It almost felt like she was walking through me. Like in those movies with the ghosts.     “Tsk tsk tsk James,” said Mr Rudy (the principal). “James, this must be the third time you’ve been in my office this term,” he said.     I nodded my head.     He sighed. “You’re a good kid. You get good grades ok. I’m going to let you off for now,” he said.     Then I think I nodded my head, or maybe I mumbled sorry. I don’t know. All I remember is that when I got out of his office, the bell rang for break time. I didn’t go straight to Luke and them though. Instead, I tried to find Lulu because she just didn’t look like herself. Not that I care, it was just surprising, that‘s all. So I kind of just looked around, I went pretty much everywhere, but I found her and her friends sitting behind the big wall behind the math teacher’s class. All that was behind that wall were two blue benches. It was extremely separate. Luke Sam and Tony were caught smoking a cigarette there once. So it was kind of a surprise to see Lulu, Mia and Chloe there. They were kind of just sitting there. Chloe and Mia were sitting on opposite sides of the bench, and Lulu was kind of just stretched across the bench. Her head was on Mia’s lap, and her feet were resting on Chloe’s lap.     I guess I should be more descriptive when it comes to people’s looks. Chloe had brown-blonde hair that was always kinda poufy. She also wore dog ears on a headband. I don’t even know how that’s allowed. Anyways, Mia had black straight hair that was always tied in pigtails. I think I already said what Lulu looks like. It’s not that important. I just thought I’d be a little more descriptive.     “Why are you just staring at us?” asked Lulu.     I didn’t think they could see me.     “I uh, I was just… I wanted to sit here,” I mumbled.     They kind of just looked at me and then Mia sighed. “Well we’re sitting here,” she said.     I didn’t ask anything. I just sat on the bench opposite them.     They pretended like I wasn’t there; it felt like the roles were being reversed. Without Luke, I couldn’t think of an insult. I kind of just went on my phone and listened to them talk. I didn’t want to leave anyways.     “Ok, the best male singer,” said Lulu.     “Jon Bon Jovi,” quickly replied Chloe.     Lulu and Mia groaned.     “No, it’s one hundred per cent David Bowie,” said Lulu.     “Gross, that guy just gives me the creeps,” said Chloe.     Then Mia argued that it was Mozart.     “He doesn’t even sing though,” said Lulu.     “Oh whatever, he’s so much better and classy than whoever you just said,” she said.     Lulu and Chloe looked horrified. It was hilarious.     “Ok, since we can’t decide who is the best, we can at least come to an agreement and say that Freddie Mercury is the second best,” said Lulu.     Chloe and Mia nodded their heads.     “What do you think, Easton?” asked Lulu.     She sat up and looked at me.     Mia looked extremely surprised. Chloe sort of looked disgusted. I forgot that people like Lulu and them didn’t really like me.     “That’s just sad. How have you never listened to David Bowie? Jon Bon Jovi? Or Queen?” asked Lulu.     “I don’t know, aren’t those guys like, pretty old?” I asked.     Lulu, Chloe and Mia gave an audible sigh.     “You need to listen to better music than Juice WRLD,” said Chloe.     They all nodded their heads. I wonder what Luke would have said if he knew I was here, or Jules. So I left them and went back to my friends. When Luke asked where I went, I just told him I was at the principal’s office for a long time.     After an extra tiring school week, it was finally Friday. When I got home, I was immediately reminded that my Mom and I had to go to have dinner with Jules and her Mom. I really didn’t want to, if I can be honest with you. I didn’t really think I liked Jules. I don’t think I ever liked Jules. She’s a nice girl and whatever. I mean, she’s pretty, but that’s pretty much all I know about her and everybody knows that she’s pretty. Anyways, Mavis told me to go shower, so I showered and then I put on some clothes because I realized that I had been living in my school uniform for a while. I really needed to cut my hair. It was starting to curl at the ends. I didn’t even know my hair could do that. It kind of made me look like a stoned skater dude, not that I really care. It’s just that I hadn’t looked in the mirror for a while.     Jules’ house was huge. It was all wooden and kind of looked like a really big treehouse. I wondered what her Mom did for a living. Anyways, after I said hi to her Mom, I went up to Jules’ room while our Moms went to the living room.     “You look nice,” I said.     “That’s the first thing you’ve said to me in four days,” she said.     She seemed a little irritated, and to be honest I didn’t know what to do. She sat down on her bed, and I sort of awkwardly sat next to her and put my hand on her shoulder. This is why I think girls are stupid. If we weren’t “dating” would she even care? It’s not like we could talk about a lot of stuff anyways. I don’t even like talking.     ”I’m sorry,” I said.     “It’s not about being sorry, East. You’re always sorry,” she replied.     That’s not true, I think this must be the first time I’ve ever even said sorry to her. She stood up and moved my hand away.     “Do you even like me?” she asked.     There was a pause.     “Of course I like you, Jules. We’ve been friends for ages,” I said.     “East, we’ve all been friends for ages. You don’t like Tony, but you guys have been friends for ages. I’m not trying to go after you; it’s just like sometimes you’re not even there,” she said.     I think she was about to cry. God, I really, really hate crying. Yet, people always seem to cry in front of me.     “Why do you even care anyways?” I said.     She looked shocked. “What the fuck East?”     “Blah blah blah, everyone’s always in my fucking ear all the time,” I said.     She laughed, the way you do when you’re really pissed off with somebody, and you don’t know what to say.     “So that’s why you never talk. Whatever comes out of your mouth is just bullshit,” she said.     “You’re the exact same, it’s just sadder because you talk all the time,” I replied.     So you can imagine how awkward dinner was. We didn’t really talk to each other after that. It’s not like our moms noticed; they were so busy with their own conversation. I guess everybody is busy with their own stuff all the time. The next day Lulu called me. She never calls so I was pretty surprised.     “Hey Easton. I was just wondering if you felt like driving. I mean, I guess it sounds stupid, but Mia’s older sister is in town, and she said we could invite anybody to go on a little drive,” she said.     “Hey, I’m sorry about my Mom dropping you off at Mandela Park and whatever.”    “No worries, I needed the exercise anyways.”     But I still felt bad.     She told me what time, and I told her I’d come over. I hope my friends never find out about this stuff.     “Where are you going, James?” asked Mom.     “Out, Mom.”     She never usually asked me where I was going, so I was pretty pissed off that she didn’t just let me leave.     “Out where, with who?” she asked.     “With friends, Mom. Out to like, the beach or something,” I said.     She said ok, but that I should text her. Why the hell did she care? It’s not like I was going out doing “bad” things. Damn, this was probably the one time that I was going to do something “normal.”    So I walked down to Lulu’s house, and we talked for a bit. Once again, she didn’t take me to the main house, she just took me into that really small cottage. I didn’t care though. I was just happy to be there.     “How was your Friday?” she asked. She was wearing jeans and a crop Rolling Stones t-shirt. She had a bandana in her hair. She was washing some dishes while she was talking.     “Uh, Easton?” she said.     “Oh, uh my Friday was pretty bad, not gonna lie. I kinda think Jules and I may have broken up,” I said.     She sighed. “Well, I guess it’s not fun to focus on that stuff. Just try to have fun today.”     Mia’s older sister was not like what I imagined. She drove one of those old yellow Volkswagen vans. She was also listening to music pretty loud, but old school music. When Lulu and I got into her van, I realized that besides the driver’s seat, it didn’t have any seats. Instead, there were blankets and very thin camping mattresses laid on the ground. When I got into the car, I greeted her and everybody else with an aweh. Chloe was wearing a red dress and dog ears with a matching dog collar. Mia was wearing an LV sweater and tights. But both of them were wearing the same facial expression.   It had been about ten minutes in the car; there was absolute silence, besides the music and Mia shouting at her sister in like, Chinese or something. I don’t know if she was angry or not. Chloe broke the silence by saying, “Why the hell is he here?”     “Guys, don’t be mean. Plus you said I could invite a friend,”     “OH OK Lulu a friend! I mean, I know Chloe was being a bit irrational, but like two weeks ago, you hated him,” Mia said.     This argument continued between them for about ten minutes. They almost acted like I wasn’t even there. Lulu settled the situation after a while and they were back to talking about random stuff. I wasn’t really talking, but that was ok. I was fine just being there.     So I think we were driving to Blouberg because that’s what Mei (Mia’s sister) said. I learnt some new things about all of them. Like how Lulu is obsessed with music and Mia loved everything to do with cooking and how Chloe actually knew a lot of things about animals, like a lot. So I told them about how much I like movies, and they were actually surprised.     “I actually really liked Titanic though,” I said.     There was silence. Then Lulu burst out laughing, the way she always does.     “Titanic was so bad. The only thing good about that movie was young Leo,” she said.     I was offended, don’t tell my friends this, but I actually think it’s my favourite movie. Chloe went on to call the movie cheesy and other stuff. But then the car went super silent. Until the next song started playing.     “Put it louder,” said Lulu. They all started dancing. Lulu grabbed my hand and started sway-dancing. I didn’t know what song it was. Then Lulu sang the opening line.     “I can’t get no satisfaction,” she sang, very off-key.     Mia pretended to do the drums, Chloe played the air guitar, and Lulu kept on singing off-key. Then they all screamed. “No no no. Bum bum bum bum bum… Hey hey hey! Bu bu da bu. That‘s what I say!”     I laughed really hard at her terrible singing. I don’t think I’ve ever laughed so hard in my life. Mei blasted the music up and opened all the windows, and for a second while the song was playing, it almost felt like the music was slowing down. For a second, it went silent. I knew it wasn’t silent at all, but that’s just what it felt like. It felt like that honey-colored afternoon again. When the music ended, everybody was out of breath.     “That was some of the worst singing I’ve ever heard,” I said, between breaths.     “Oh don’t lie, you loved it,” said Lulu.     So we got to Blouberg and went to this little ice cream place. We got ice cream and kind of just walked around the beach. We were all talking about movies or music or whatever. Anyways, I wasn’t really talking. I don’t like talking much, anyways. Lulu managed to break away from the conversation. Chloe and Mia were still going strong arguing about something.     “Why did you break up with Jules?” asked Lulu. She sounded serious.     “I didn’t, not really, I guess. She legit just started complaining to my face, so I got a little annoyed and told her she was always complaining to my face and whatever.”     “Did you at least call her to say sorry?”     I shook my head.     “Bruh. You have to call her,” she said. “Call her and say you’re sorry and that you’re stupid.”     “Why do you care anyways?” I asked.     She paused. “Just because you’re not a likeable person, so I want to make sure you don’t end up sad and lonely,” she admitted.     I laughed.     “What are you two talking about?” asked Mia.     We told her it was nothing. Chloe stood behind her and looked at me like I had done something suspicious.     It was kind of warm that day, so there were quite a few people at the beach. So we all sat down and watched the windsurfers. I think the wind was too strong because one guy got pushed like fifty meters away. So we were talking about surfing, and Chloe was lecturing us on why we should save the turtles. I felt something really cold on my head, my first guess was bird shit, but it was heavier. Then Mia gasped, ice cream started to drip all over my face. Lulu and Chloe started to laugh. I looked up at them. They were the culprits. I started running after them into the water; it was pretty cold. Mia chased after me to slow me down. Chloe was pretty fast, so I couldn’t get her. I got Lulu though. I head-butted her in the stomach, so ice cream went all over her top.     After we had our little ice cream fight, all of our clothes got pretty dirty, so Mei made us wash the ice cream off in the water. We got super cold, so Mei made us all wrap around in blankets. Lulu said that the car made us look like “little hitchhiking hippies from the sixties”. We were all sitting in the car while Mei blasted her old music. We all fell asleep pretty soon because the music was getting really slow. I realized that I actually had an ok time. It made me wonder if I could do that every weekend.     I got home at around fou,r and I said goodbye to everyone and whatever. Mom was waiting for me in the kitchen and asked me if I was hungry. I said no and went upstairs to think. I found a warm spot out on our balcony and lay there. I thought about being friends with Mia, Lulu and Chloe forever. You know, like friends in the movies. It’s not like I didn’t like my friends, I don’t know. I guess I was just being pretty dumb, but it was a nice thought.     ***    I haven’t written in a while. I did something really really really really stupid. I did a bad thing, like a really bad thing. It wasn’t all my fault, it really wasn’t, but some people don’t understand things. They want things to be all complicated but really, they’re quite simple. That’s what makes everything so complicated. I didn’t really mean to say all those things that I said, but then I said them, and you can’t just vacuum up words that have already been said, so everything is just a bit messy right now.   So after that day at the beach with Lulu, Chloe and Mia, we sort of became friends. So what I would do is split break times, fifteen minutes with Lulu and fifteen minutes with Jules. I felt like two different people, like I didn’t know. Maybe I liked myself better when I was with Lulu and her friends. Does that make sense? Like I was actually two completely different people.     Anyways, I think Jules must have noticed I was spending time with them. I didn’t think she would care though. We made up. I mean I’m her “boyfriend” now. We both like each other, I guess. I’ve been a lot less honest to her, but this is a good thing because otherwise, I end up hurting her “feelings” or whatever. But things started to get a bit weird. I started to think about Lulu a lot, like all the time. My mind would say, “Oh Lulu would like this” or “Lulu loves this song” or “I can’t wait to tell Lulu about this” or “I think I’m in love with her.”     So Lulu and I were becoming really good friends. Like, she came to my house all the time and we had inside jokes and everything. Things were going really well; I was actually really happy. Then I would spend time with Jules, and even though it was kind of boring, it would be ok because I could think about Lulu. This was when the first confusing thing happened.     So Lulu and I were at my house. We had the whole house to ourselves because everybody was gone. We’re sitting together, just talking about nothing. But that’s when I realized that I was probably in love with her. So I decided that the next day I was going to go to Jules and break up with her.     When Lulu left, I told Luke about my plan.     He replied, “What the fuck are you talking about,”     “I just told you.”     Silence.     “You’ve lost your fucking mind, you do realize that right?”     “Whatever Luke, that’s what I’m going to do tomorrow, ok?”     So I went down to Jules’ house and whatever. It seemed like she already knew I was coming though, because she opened the door before I knocked.     “East, I need to tell you something really important,” she said.     We went up to her room, and she closed the door behind her. Honestly, I didn’t really know what to expect.     “East, I know you’ve been hanging out with Lulu. No, don’t say anything, it’s ok. I just want you to know that she has some problems. Like she’s actually obsessed with you. She tried to drown herself just so you could save her. I caught her staring at you in class one time. She also writes about you all the time in her stupid diary or whatever.”     I was silent for a while. I guess it made sense at the time, or maybe it was just because I kind of wanted to believe it because it would make things easier. Anyways, that’s sort of how it all started.     I stopped talking to Mia, Chloe and Lulu. I didn’t even look at them and whenever any of them tried to talk to me, I would ignore them or say, ”Yoh, just shut up.” Soon they gave up on talking to me, I thought everything would go back to normal, but it didn’t. I mean, we would make fun of them a lot more than usual. Luke even once called her an obsessive creep and it made her cry. I realized that I was still in love with her, even if I was “bullying” her. I kind of had to. Sometimes you just have to do things.     It’s not like she was the only one suffering. I also hated it. I knew that she probably didn’t do all of those creepy things but the truth is, I needed my friends, and Jules making up that rumour just proved that she cared. Does that make sense? I guess the truth is that I couldn’t be friends with Lulu and them. They just wouldn’t get me as much as my friends do, and they’re weird. But I couldn’t stop liking her as much as I did.     Maybe I liked it better when she was sad. I mean, after a week, she didn’t care at all. She laughed with her friends and didn’t even look at me. It was almost like she didn’t care about me at all. I was starting to feel really shitty, I know I said I would stop swearing, but it’s just so hard. I went home and immediately went upstairs. I shut the door and ran to the shower. Then I sort of just turned the shower on and sat in the shower. I was still wearing my school clothes and everything, but I needed to cool down. I sort of just sat there for a while.     Everything was becoming so blurry. I usually don’t think of myself as a dramatic person, but I guess what I was doing was pretty dramatic. I just felt lonely, I guess. Like I didn’t have any friends. Like I was screaming and nobody could hear me. I wish I was a “nicer” person. I wish things didn’t have to be so simple, but so complicated. I didn’t have to believe Jules, but I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to. I had to.     I don’t really remember what happened next. My mom says that she found me fully clothed in the shower yelling “I had to,” like a crazy person. She said when she tried to get me out, I kicked her really hard. My Mom said that she didn’t know what to do, so she called the school counsellor. They calmed me down or whatever. They made me sound like one of those kids with special needs or whatever, but I’m not one of those kids. I’m normal.    That’s why I was sitting in Ms Zilon’s (the counsellor) office. She asked me to sit down and so I did. It was a nice office and all, but I didn’t need to be there.     “So, how are you feeling James?” she asked.     There was silence as she got her notepad out. It was like she was analysing me.     “Hungry,” I replied.     She chuckled.     “So as you know, you had a nervous breakdown. Do you know what might have caused it?”     Silence.     “Aren’t you the fucking, psychologist or whatever?’’ I asked.     She just stared for a second, then she acted calm. That pissed me off, so I got a cigarette out of my pocket and lit it.     I got suspended for a whole month. I didn’t really care anymore. Everything was still the same, Jules sent me school work, and I still went out on the weekends. I wasn’t “allowed” to, but I snuck out anyways. The usual teenage rebellion.     People always say that when you’re feeling sad, you try to search for a distraction and that’s a bad thing. But everybody does it, even if it’s not drugs or whatever, we all have distractions. Maybe that’s why people have kids. Maybe Lulu’s distraction is school; that’s why she’s so good at class. Maybe Jules’ distraction is looking good. That’s why she cares about clothes and all that shit. Luke’s distraction is his friends. That’s why he tries to control everybody.     I also have a distraction, it’s a bit weird, I guess. Sometimes when I’m feeling down, I go to the beach and sit on the bench. I kind of like the beach now. I have a love-hate relationship with the beach, if that makes sense. When I’m lucky, I’ll see Lulu walking on the shore. I never go up to her. I just leave her there on the shore. I don’t have anything to say to her. Not anymore. Maybe it seems pretty weird to just watch her, but I can’t go up and talk to her. Sometimes you just can’t do things.     