Alex and the blesser     It’s cold today eMajokweni, a small village located in the outskirts of Durban. I can feel the frosty air piercing through my nose as I contemplate whether to leave this cosy bed or have my skinny body battered and numbed by this ruthless unsympathetic day.   I eventually gather up the courage and jolt out of bed to warm my bathwater and make something to eat. I placed the wood in the shed yesterday so that it wouldn’t get wet from the melting frost and dampness caused by the fog. I eventually went to our worn-down hut, made a fire, and took a bath in front of the blazing flames. I also placed my half-full tub of Vaseline closer to the flames so that it slowly melts from the hard brick condition it was in. I left my clothes in my small zinc shack so that they wouldn’t be engulfed by the smoke.  After ten minutes, I am already buttered up in Vaseline, slowly moving my R8.50 Sadie roll-on under my arms and getting dressed. As I exit my room, the sun is already shining its bright rays across the icy grass, but that offers little comfort because the cold air is still pricking my skin like a thousand sharp needles. Maybe it will get better once I am in the taxi.     After being crammed in a stuffy taxi for a whole hour, I finally get off at Smith Street in Durban. It’s busy as usual and the place I am heading to I’m sure it’s full. However, I will be able to enter because I am the doctor’s “special person”. I enter Dr Mbele’s practice and Mbali, the receptionist, is sitting idle with nothing to do. I look across the patients’ waiting area and it’s empty; that’s unusual. Where were all the Durbanites who are always seeking sick notes and extensions for their sick days? This was indeed odd. I greet Mbali. She responds with a fake smile. She definitely does not like me. I don’t know why because I am always nice to her, but her boss adores me, so she has to toe the line.   “Is Dr Mbele available?” I ask Mbali with a big smile on my face. I know she hates that.   She responds with a cold “Yes!” while looking down, pretending to be reading something.   I head down the hallway to his consultation room. I suddenly stop. I need to spray some EMA on me; I can’t just walk in there smelling musty. As soon as I enter the consultation room, the stench from the bleach and sterilisation chemicals abrasively penetrates my nostrils. The door is open, but I decide to knock anyway. A smooth dark brown face looks at me and a picture-perfect smile beams from this beautiful structure.   “How are you baby?” A question I have been waiting to be asked. I blush a little, then I take my eyes off the floor, and my big Bugs-Bunny teeth are revealed through my brown lips. I have a hard time looking at Sphe. I still can’t believe we are even dating, me dating a whole doctor, definitely a fairy-tale in the making. I walk over to him, sit on his lap and give him a soft kiss on the lips. He looks directly into my eyes and leans forward to kiss me. At this moment, we are definitely in our own private Idaho.   After the kissing session, we converse about how his day was, even though it has not ended, but with the lack of patients coming in today, he hasn’t had much to do. Of course, he doesn’t ask how my day is going. I am currently unemployed, and the only way I was able to get here is the R800 that he had given me on the day we decided to consummate our relationship at Blue Waters Hotel.   Since it’s a slow day, we decide to go have lunch at Circus-Circus near the beachfront. Mbali is instructed to lock up, while Sphe and I drive off to the beachside. We eat, chat and laugh. I have gotten used to ordering from restaurant menus, but I still struggle with the cutlery and how to pronounce the words. In the midst of our conversation, Sphe gets a call on his cell phone. He responds with one-word answers and then ends the call. He looks at me and asks me how I feel about spending the night at his house. I don’t know what to say. He pays for the meal and the drinks. I hear a stern yet soft “let’s go”. I grab my phone and we head off to the parking area.    We drive up to a silver gate on La Lucia Avenue. It automatically opens once the car enters the driveway and three palm trees stand tall in the middle of the yard. There is a medium-sized house next to the car garages and a double-storey at the back. I am shocked at the beauty and elegance that I am looking at. I am surprised that Sphe has never brought me here. He lives alone for heaven sakes; I’m sure he gets bored being all alone in this big house. While I’m still amazed by the beauty around me, Sphe parks the car in the garage and invites me inside the small house. White floor tiles, baby blue paint on the walls and dark brown furniture in the kitchen and lounge. I involuntarily give myself a house tour while the owner is getting himself something to drink. I walk into a bedroom that has an ironed cleaner’s uniform laid on the bed and pumps neatly placed underneath the bed. I walk to the next room, and the bathroom has women’s underwear dangling on the window, a pink facecloth on the shower rail, and lilac towels hanging over the bathtub. I leave the bathroom and head back to Sphe.   “When are we going to the big house?” I ask him as I sit down looking at the half-full glass of water on the table. He hesitates to answer and just focuses on watching television. He doesn’t look comfortable.   I ask him another question. “Whose uniform is that in the bedroom?”   He looks at me, smiles and says, “It’s going to be yours tonight.”   I try to place my head on his chest, but he immediately gets startled. He stands up quickly and walks over to the curtain. A car stops right next to the window. He looks at me with a stunned expression all over his face, and whispers “Go and hide in the garage!”  I jolt to the kitchen and open the door that leads into the garage. I see Sphe’s car and then another one that looks like a Jeep Wrangler. I first stand behind the door, hoping that if anyone opens it, they won’t see me hiding on the other side. I quickly move away from the door and hide next to the car parked against the wall. I hear voices coming from the car that suddenly parked near the window. It sounds like a woman instructing her kids to take groceries out from the boot. I hear footsteps entering the lounge and then in the kitchen. I am still baffled as to why I was asked to hide in the garage and who this woman and these children making a noise are.   I hear Sphe speaking to this woman; he’s laughing and asking what this woman is looking for. She seems to be going through the house searching for something. The door in the kitchen leading to the garage opens.   I hear Sphe laughing and asking, “My love, what are you looking for?”   It seems the woman is now also in the garage, she opens the two garage doors, and the brightness of the sun shines through. I remain silent while listening to the woman’s footsteps. She leaves the garage for a few minutes, and I get to change my position from squatting to lying on my stomach on the cold floor. When the woman returns, she is accompanied by another person wearing black pumps, similar to the ones I saw in the bedroom. Then, three short, burly looking figures appear next to the two human beings standing near the car garage. The woman has unchained the pit bulls. I urinate. The liquid involuntarily flowing down my thighs warms me for a few seconds, and then I become even colder than before. I see Sphe’s shoes exiting the kitchen door, he calls out to the dogs, and a few seconds later they follow him. A sigh of relief.    ***  I have been lying on my stomach on this freezing floor for three hours now, while Sphe is laughing and chatting with the people who interrupted us. The garage doors are still open, and the cold evening air is now lashing my body. I am hungry, thirsty and wet. I have accepted the fact that I might spend the whole night on this floor. I am even more worried about my grandmother. She must be worried sick by now, especially since I left my phone on the table. I guess I will have to buy another one if I leave this place alive.   While lost in my thoughts, I notice that the room is now quiet and the kitchen door opens. I see Sphe’s shoes, then a whistle erupts. I get up and he signals for me to get into the car. I move slowly because my body is numb from lying on this cold floor. I get into the back seat and lie down. The warmth from the car offers some comfort. He reverses the car out of the garage and stops. Someone opens the front door on the passenger side and gets in.   “Hi, what’s your name?” a cute face with big eyes gazes at me for an answer. He looks five or six.   “Alex… my name is Alex.”    I look away and another question erupts from this small round face that’s eagerly observing me. “Do you like popcorn Alex? We are going to buy popcorn”. I ignore him.   His father saves me from this interrogation with just three words “Stop bothering Alex”.   The gate opens, the car exits, and I get driven back to Durban. Sphe buys something at KFC and withdraws some money from the ATM next to the restaurant. We stop at Bayside Hotel. I get handed the money and the KFC. I open the car door, get out, close it, and never look back. I enter the hotel and proceed to check-in. After paying, I walk up to my room and proceed to unlock the door. The room is moderately clean; there must be a shortage of cleaners. Before I leave tomorrow I will have to ask the receptionist if there are any job openings at the hotel for male cleaners.   