Bone Child      While the rest of the Grade 3B class sat in monotonous rows watching Mrs Lewis scrape down numbers and equations on the chalkboard, Thenjiwe was outside the campus waiting for her mother to pick her up. No, she was not bunking school. Instead, she had a rather crucial errand to attend to. Standing by the school gates, in her powder blue pinafore school dress, which she continually pulled down her hips because it did not fit right, she felt special. There is a sense of superiority that comes  with being the only one exempt from school early.     “I have a severe allergy to fractions and multiplication,” she boasted to her deskmates when they queried why she was packing up in the middle of Mathematics.     This was possibly a slight fabrication, but the truth is that she did not know how to explain her situation to her peers. It was none of their business anyway. Nonetheless, the level of interest exhibited by her peers did enhance her feeling of specialness.    Swiftly, she strode out of the classroom and waited patiently by the gate next to the sand-bedded playground for her mother to arrive. She recalls the first day of term: during break, a prefect told her she was too big to be playing on the Grade 3 playground and referred her to the Grade 6 play area. How bizarre!     Luckily she did not have to remain reminiscing for too long because a dark blue Audi station wagon pulled up in front of the school gates. She climbed into the front seat, and her mother greeted her with a big smile, “You ready, my darling?” Thenjiwe nodded in response.    Before they reached the hospital, her mother applied a special plaster to her arm. An off-white square-like shape with the text Emla Patch wrapped around the front. She did not know what this did exactly, but her mother always assured her that it would make the injections less painful. With her patch on her upper arm, she felt that it made her look like a superhero she had seen on Cartoon Network – a television channel her mother had only recently allowed – a privilege that came with being nine years old, apparently.    They travelled up the vinyl staircase to a room with a slide-in label: Radiography Room. In the sovereign state of her imagination, she pictured a group of crazy scientists huddled together over a radiating green light, with sparks and lasers shooting out of their new invention. However, when her mother knocked on the door, it was not a crazy boffin with cinched hair who opened it. Instead, a woman in a pair of scrubs, similar in colour to her school uniform, warmly smiled at them. She looked familiar from the last time, but Thenjiwe was embarrassed to note that she had forgotten the woman’s name. In her defence, they had not visited this side of the hospital in a while. They were invited into the mystery doctor-lady’s office.    They were seated in two identical chairs facing the doctor’s desk. While her mother consulted the mystery lady and signed a green form, she sat investigating the pictures and posters on the walls. There were many diagrams of bones, which seemed standard, but she was shocked to see images of laser machines. Maybe this is a crazy science lab after all!     “Today’s scan will only be a short reading of the bone growth in her hands and then the usual shot. We will not need to do much because her growth rate is successfully declining. Your daughter should be on track with her agemates in a year.” The doctor received the form back from her mother.     “That is great to hear.” Thenjiwe’s mother looked down at her and smiled.     Although she could not fully grasp the gist of what was said, she could not help but feel that they were patronising her. Was there something wrong with her? Maybe she, like Spiderman, had been infected by a radioactive insect that gave her abnormal abilities. She had asked her mother about this before, after visits such as this one.     She recalls her mother’s response, “You are just growing too fast, my baby. I want you to be a little girl for a while longer, that is why we are here.”  