Our Ride or Die  Five years into the new democracy, Cato Manor – affectionately known as Umkhumbane – still bore remnants of apartheid: a cluster of ramshackle shacks devoid of proper sanitation, running water and electricity. Some of the courageous inhabitants resorted to illegally connecting to the electric current from the streetlights. Too often, there were fatal consequences for that level of bravery.    Despite a lack of amenities, children always find ways to create a pastime. Like fluttering moths to a little flame, we were inevitably drawn to one object: a red chainless bicycle.     Often, a throng of us would take turns mounting the bicycle from the peak of the steep road and descend downwards. Most of the time, we were turning a deaf ear to our mothers’ reminders to do house chores and run errands. Darkness was our worst enemy since it always curtailed our fun just when it had reached its climax. We would then reluctantly go to our respective homes where harsh questions or, for some, a spank awaited us. No one would wear shoes. To some, it was a matter of choice; to others, it was inevitable. Our feet were slowly adapting to stepping on stones, glass shards, and thorns without a yelp. But in our hearts, we knew there was one fatal thing our bodies would never adapt to: bare electric wires snaking under the scantily dug out ground.    ***    One night, I came home dragging along my usual companion, the red bicycle. All along the journey, a fat moon had been hanging over my head, as if it was going to explode on top of me. About a year ago, my Mom had arrived with the bicycle from her domestic work in Westville. It was in decent shape, except that the chain was missing.    My Mom loved me dearly. She went out of her way to show me that I meant a lot to her. She had once told me a harrowing story about my brother. His name was Mbongeni and he passed away when I was still a toddler. According to her, he had been roughly around my age – and I was his spitting image.    On the eve of his passing, a Saturday afternoon, it was scorching hot. Mbongeni had entered the house and sidled along the wall. Mom said it was a tell-tale sign that he wanted to ask her for something.    “Can I go to swim in the river with my friends, Mom?” he had said, eyes staring down and slightly gnawing at his forefinger.    “Hell, no! You will drown in the river. Can’t you see that I’m a pauper? I barely have a funeral cover?” Mom had said, not mincing her words.”    “I won’t drown. I know how to swim, Mom,” Mbongeni had been on the verge of tears.    “Now you are starting to be a pain in the arse. Go! Make sure you come back before the sun goes down. Or else I will give you a spank.”    Swimming in the river was not the only thing that Mbongeni and his friends did. They also dipped sacks into the river to catch catfish. If swimming became boring, they resorted to surfing, using white polystyrene packaging as surfboards.    Mom had told me that the twinkle in Mbongeni’s eyes and the Cheshire cat smile on his face when she gave him permission to swim in the river left an indelible mark on her heart and will be forever ingrained in her mind.    When the sun began to kiss the mountains, painting them reddish-orange, two boys with puffy faces and bare chests had hurtled into the house and began to cry.    “He is dead! He was electrocuted by bare electric wires on the river bank!” one of the boys had blurted out.    “Who?” Mom had asked. Her heart was thumping, and she was gasping for air.    “Mbo… Mbongeni…”    Mom had wailed in agony. The neighbours were alarmed. In a fleeting instant, they had flocked into the house.    ***    When Mom answered the knock, I was suddenly bathed with paraffin lamp light that issued from our wooden house. And when she laid her eyes on me, she was incensed at what she saw.    “You look like a pig that has been shovelling mud!”     I quailed and examined my clothes as if seeing them for the first time. Grease was all over my t-shirt like a bad rash.    “Have you bought enough soap to wash those clothes, Bongani?”    “No, Mom,” I muttered.    She stood ponderously on the doorway with fists rested on her hips, which gave me a momentary reprieve. After a scathing stare, she flounced off into the kitchen. I timidly dragged the bicycle along into the house and parked it underneath my squeaky bed.    She poured water in the kettle and laid it on the flame of a paraffin stove. In a short while, water was boiling. I sloshed it into an enamel dish and took it outside for a bath where I wouldn’t have the inconvenience of mopping a wet floor.    After the warm bath, I changed into pyjamas. A warm, scrumptious meal of pap and chicken feet awaited me. Meanwhile, Mom was busy ironing my school clothes.    To say Mom had done a fantastic job on raising me as a single parent was an understatement. My father had a proclivity for booze and shuffling cards. As fate would have it, he later died of liver disease. He did temporary plumbing jobs, but would sometimes lose all his wages on card gambling. And the onus to put food on the table was on Mom.    When I had finished eating and was ready to sleep, she scolded me for my earlier porcine behaviour and pinched my ears for all the trouble. That night, my sleep was uncomfortable. My ears were throbbing with pain.    ***    When I returned from school the next day, I was as disciplined as a marine corp. Earlier in the morning, Mom had drummed it into my ears that if I ever rode the bicycle again, she would beat me into a pulp and feed me to vultures.    My close pal, Ntokozo, showed up while I was busy hanging a school shirt on a makeshift clothesline, a rope tied from the eaves to a nearby guava tree.    He made several attempts to convince me to return to our “ride or die” without success. After a while, three of our partners in crime materialised. Likewise, their attempts were in vain. Realising I would not budge, they left with their heads dropped. Ntokozo also had thrown in the towel. We watched cartoons on a blurry black and white television until Mom came home from work.    ***    My self-imposed hiatus lasted a monotonous five days. On the sixth day, I was back in the thick of things, and my partners in crime were enamoured. Through my abstinence from the game, I had earned all sorts of monikers: “mama’s boy” and “sissy boy” were some that came to my attention.    Ntokozo and I sat on the pavement, waiting for our turn to ride the bicycle. We were eating vetkoeks and ice lollies and laughing our lungs out at Msizi and Sabelo’s argument taking place on the opposite pavement.     Out of the blue, Mandisa, a beautiful girl who was Ntokozo’s neighbour, materialised. She had caramel skin and sported neatly plaited hair. Her home was one of the select few built with painted corrugated iron and deemed to be classy.    Ntokozo nudged me with an elbow and, when he received my undivided attention, he pointed at her with an index finger, a smirk pervading his face. She was now at the tuck shop counter, a loaf of bread clutched in her hands. He knew all too well that I had a crush on Mandisa but lacked the bravery to tell her. At the age of eight, who could blame me for my cowardice?    When she took another path back home, I was the most relieved human being on the planet.    ***    Xina plodded towards us, hands taut on the handlebars, pushing the bicycle up the steep road. I heard Msizi saying to Sabelo, “I’m going to tell Xina what you once said about her.” He had evidently come short off their tit-for-tat. It was a tell-tale moment.    Upon reaching the top of the road, she heaved a huge sigh of relief. Descending the road was our favourite part; returning back was an onerous task. One had to negotiate the steep road while pushing the chainless bike and dealing with aching shoulders and calf muscles for all the trouble.    “Sabelo said you look like a gorilla,” Msizi blurted out to Xina. Ntokozo and I chuckled. Her real name was Zanele, but she went by Xina because of her lithe and supple body. She could do all kinds of somersaults and was, apparently, a good fighter as well. She was named after a Chinese lady who starred in a movie series which was all the rage at the time.    “He said I look like what?” Xina asked impassively. To me, it felt threatening.    Supposedly, Sabelo thought Xina had sharp pointed ears and a skin that was as dark as soot. Whether that was equivalent to resembling a gorilla, it was only Sabelo who seemed to know.    “Is what he is saying true, Sabelo?” She was crouched such that her gaze was level with Sabelo’s who was still sitting on the pavement. Meanwhile, Msizi, the match to the pending inferno, looked enthused at the prospect of a fight.    Sabelo remained taciturn as if what was happening didn’t ruffle his feathers in the least. Ntokozo and I, huddled on the pavement, feared the worst.    “Can’t you hear that I’m talking to you?” she said tetchily. Xina pushed Sabelo’s forehead with her index finger, and his head tilted backwards. That was the straw that broke the camel’s back. Sabelo stood up abruptly, his neck muscles taut like a drawn bowstring. His breathing was heavy and rugged. We watched with keen interest, anticipating what was about to unfold.    “You want to fight?” Xina rolled her dress inside the elastic that lined her panties. She then pushed Sabelo with such force that he staggered but managed to regain his balance just in time. He came charging like an enraged bull, but she swooped on him before he could lay the first blow. Xina tripped him and, in an instant, was on top of him. By that time, a horde of charismatic children had swamped the fighting arena. We were chanting in unison, “Pero! Pero! Pero!”    Xina’s butt was parked on top of Sabelo’s chest. She used her knees to press his spread-eagled arms against the ground.    “Do you still want to fight?” She gave him a few slaps against his cheeks, which drew peals of laughter from the audience. When Sabelo shook his head, it was clear he wanted nothing to do with the fight anymore.    ***    If ever we had a presentiment on how the following day was going to pan out, we wouldn’t have dared to mount our “ride or die”.    The day started in high spirits. The mood and the competitive edge of the game was on another level. The only noticeable absentee was Sabelo, which became a subject of jokes that he was scared of having round two with Xina. We also fooled Msizi into believing that Xina was lurking somewhere for an ambush. We could sense that he was starting to shake in his boots.    The day continued in that fashion, filled with banter and laughter. We flaunted our different riding styles, and I trumped all of them, followed closely by Ntokozo.    A light drizzle pinged against the road and our sweaty bodies. When I looked up at the sky, there were ominous signs. A dark blanket of clouds hung menacingly over us.    “Unfortunately, we’ve reached the end of the day, guys,” I said.    “But I was supposed to be the last one to ride,” Sabelo said pleadingly.    “You’ll be the one who’s going to ride first tomorrow. It is raining now,” I tried to reason with him. He looked morose. Whether that was a ruse to break my defences, I didn’t know.    “Please be quick. I don’t want heavy rain to arrive while I’m still here.” I said to Sabelo after a pause. I handed the bicycle over to him, oblivious to the fact that I would live to regret that decision for the rest of my life.    ***    A thunderclap erupted and a bolt of lightning crisscrossed the sky. A knot of fear coiled in the pit of my stomach. All of a sudden, half of the houses in our area were pitch dark.    “Where is Sabelo?” I asked in alarm. The three of us exchanged worried looks. I trotted downwards, my two partners in crime tailed behind me.    As I approached, I was confronted by the deserted bicycle, which sent shivers down my spine. I stopped in my tracks, my eyes scouring the area.    “Where’s Sabelo?” Xina breathed down my neck. I shrugged. When a bolt of lightning flashed again, I thought I had glimpsed something in the bushes. I went to the thicket that flanked the road and scanned the area. I was shocked at what I saw. I emitted an earth-shattering wail. Xina and Ntokozo came rushing to me. They also couldn’t hold back their tears.    Sabelo’s body lay grotesquely amidst the thicket. My first guess was that he had been hit by lightning, but when I saw bare electric wires, it dawned on me that he fell off the bike and was electrocuted. He was neither the first nor the last child to experience that cruel death.    ***    Two decades passed swiftly, as if one was immersed in a dream, only to find that, when it had worn off, such a long time had elapsed.    There is a lot of transformation in Cato Manor, including improved infrastructure, but also escalating levels of crime. The number of shacks and illegal electricity connections has skyrocketed.    I, Bongani Gumede, have also experienced much change in my life. I have a Bachelor of Science in Medicine from my alma mater, Nelson Mandela School of Medicine at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. I decided to open my own surgery two years ago, and it has been rendering services to my community ever since. With the help of my childhood friends, Xina and Ntokozo, I have formed a bike riding club in our area. We teach children from the age of eight up to nineteen to ride bicycles. A sixteen-year-old girl in our club is a 20km champion. And a nineteen-year-old boy was a runner-up in a 42km competition that was held in Cape Town.    I am also happily married to my lovely childhood sweetheart, Mandisa Khumalo, an optometrist practising in the same surgery with me. We are blessed with a three-year-old baby girl, Amahle. She is both our blessing and bundle of joy.    The sport of bike riding seems to be running through my veins because I’ve joined a riding club and I partake in competitions whenever I get time.     Right now, I’m weaving through traffic on our residential road. It seems one of the forever troublesome sewerage drains has spilt over the road, causing monumental congestion. As I pass by a supermarket, I see one of the elderly women who is known as a gossiper in our area. She waves a hand. I obediently wave back. I pedal for another block under the baking sun. When I reach a garage, I park my bicycle and ask a petrol attendant to look after it. I give him a twenty rand tip and I head inside the store. I fish out one of my favourite cool drinks from the fridge and trudge to the till queue.    As I emerge from the shop, I bump into one of my former classmates who is infamously known for housebreaking and pickpocketing. He has a slew of gash marks on his face and head. Word doing the rounds was that he was recently out of prison. He asks for two rand; I give him five instead. He smiles from ear to ear and gives me a high five.    I pedal down the road while sipping my cool drink. When I reach the traffic light, I see a hale and hearty old man known in our area as a no-nonsense usurer. He shouts my name, and I make a salutation gesture.    My ultimate destination is my friend’s home. It’s the most significant day of his life, his birthday. A bouquet of roses was tied in between my handlebars and I have it in my hand. Albeit my birthday was a few months away, we were born in the same year. He is now twenty-eight years old.    I reach a forked road and hook a left turn. I swill the last dregs of cool drink and throw the container in the receptacle. A municipal bus whooshes past me, generating a cool breeze that evaporates beads of sweat.    I reach a recreational park with trees aplenty planted haphazardly. I weave through them up until I reach a gate staffed by a dozing security guard. I clear my throat, and he is snapped out of his dreamland. When he recognises me, he flashes a Cheshire cat smile. We’ve known each other for the past ten years since I started to frequent this place.    He opens the gate. I alight from my bike and leave it under his watchful eye. I walk through the gate and pass by a row of graves. I go to one particular grave, kneel by it, and I recite a silent prayer. I remove some of the weeds with struggling fingers and then lay down the flowers I have brought with me.    My best friend since the loss of Sabelo had been Ntokozo. He too was lost ten years ago in an accident involving his bicycle and a car. Whenever I come to his grave, it evokes such feelings for which words continue to elude me. Where Sabelo’s grave is, I know not, for his body was taken away by the state for an autopsy, but his family never did get him back for burial.    I always pay him homage whenever it is his birth or death day.     Rest in eternal peace, my bosom friends.      