Johannesburg, An Ode  Johannesburg, there’s no-one like you  Devotion like ours happens at first sight  What we are never needed a name  You’ve guided me sternly  On this sacred search for golden truth  You know my heart. You have nothing left to prove  I am your citizen because you’re the home I always choose  We gave life to each other. We are womb to tomb. You feed me  And I feed you    In your gentle ways, you awakened this woman  You taught me to be brave  You said that all we needed to survive together was courage  You broke my virginity and opened my eyes  We gave birth to a dare to dream that a love as rare as ours  Would, someday, amidst the violence, blossom  And bend and break but once again  rise up to stand tall, majestic, awesome     Johannesburg, when you smile, I smile  From your alleys  To the penthouse suites  At the naval of Africa’s richest square mile  Egoli’s nocturnal children bask reverently  In your all day long midnight hour glowing   Our lady. Red lipstick wearing  Vodacom tower protects us like a warrior mother  All knowing    Defeating the odds, just to say we did it  That’s your spirit.  Johannesburg, you are a dream come true  All you do is inspire me  Do you know that I’m a fool for you?  Each time you break my heart, I want to tell you  That I love you too  And I love you more  Your mystifying thunderstorm  That’s my favourite lullaby to hear  You take my breath away, drown and sink my fears    I live at your pace and walk in your rhythm  I’ve know you as lover, friend and kin  At your right hand is my seat  My footsteps sound your sweet, sweet heartbeat  When I succeed and when I fail, you’re the objective witness  You showed me I’m just like you  Invincible, powerful, limitless    To me, you are the centre of this and every other universe  This is how I met you. It’s how I’ll meet you anew  Until your return to the earth  Dust to dust.  The intelligent heart. The benevolent businessman  The place I call home  The one I trust    Your rain falls like sombre, unadulterated despair  Your melody is hap-hazardous. You are chaotic, and all too generous  You’re my oxygen. My air.  I need to breathe you in again and again and  I pray for the power to take in more. Never to exhale  You are unashamed. Your stars and your sun casting holy, glorious light  Your children sleep restlessly on your lap and we stand behind you  Not by sight    Johannesburg, you are immortal. I cannot own you. I cannot tame you  In all the ways I know how I will always belong to you    I’m pressured to pardon your promiscuous proposal for pleasure    When I tried to talk, instead I trembled and the tears trailed    I must’ve mistaken a moment of malice for magic and  Maybe my mind will amend the monster I made of myself  When it meant to muster that my melanin mister  Was a master manipulator  My melancholy multiplies    Open your arms to me and accept that my surrender  To you will be eternal  I cannot comprehend your apprehension  You’re my lifeline  Why won’t you pretend you feel the same way  If only in this lifetime?  