Katherine    I tried to explain to him that she was just a friend. He just laughed.  You know how it hurts when you try to explain something in length and your friend simply laughs.  “This it? Just a laugh. Basi?” I was fuming in anger. I didn’t understand why he had asked me to explain myself and then went into a stupid frenzy – and that was that. At that moment, I wished I was a hurricane to sweep away every trace of him from the face of this damned earth.  “Come on nigga, zatha basi. It’s no big deal yoo. I was simply asking, you know,” he said while patting me on my back.  I wanted to spit on his gullible face when Kathy emerged from the corner of the library building. All the anger in me melted into a drop of love hanging over my head like the tongues of fire on the heads of apostles during Pentecost. Bless knew something had happened, and certainly it wasn’t the Holy Spirit’s visitation. He turned around, and he knew the power that had instantly transformed me into such a blissful state.  “Today you are going to talk to her,” he whispered into my left ear.  I just smiled at him. The anger that was flaming in my eyes seconds ago had been put out by the stream of love that was flowing from the hill in my left eye to the shallow canyon down my cheek.  I didn’t even hear him speak. I was already in my blissful world holding Kathy close to me – telling her stories of how her beauty had been scribbled on my heart since first year.  She approached us, and her torso danced to the tune of her firm and hairy legs. I watched every part of her body move, and I was mesmerized seeing all her body cells vibrating while echoing to me sorrowful songs of loneliness.  “Today I will speak to her,” I made up my mind.  The short distance from the library corner to the noticeboard where we perched seemed a kilometer long as Kathy was still walking while singing songs that tickled my heart into merriment. I sometimes saw her dance while at other times she retreated into her own loneliness complex, and that gave me extra energy to talk to her.  “I will talk to her,” I repeated to myself.  Slowly, Bless ceased to exist in the scene. The argument about Brenda had suddenly subsided into oblivion, and it was finally me and Kathy. We were no longer outside library parameters. We were somewhere deep into the world I created specifically for her and I. She was holding my hand, telling me stories she had wanted to tell me from year one. I listened while I smiled at everything she said.  After walking a bit, she would tickle me and run. I would run after her, hold her in my arms and throw her in the air where she would fly as if she had wings and then perch on my back as if she was a dove.  “Today you are too quiet,” she said slowly without any mark of frustration or want of explanation. She was a beautiful creature, and I was searching for the right words to explain my fully nurtured love to her.  She stopped and looked me in the eye. I looked back with a sheath of dew covering my eyes. I thought she asked me if I loved her. I didn’t hesitate. I answered as if I had been waiting my whole life for this moment. I didn’t care if she had really asked the question or not. The answer was already on my lips.  “I do, Katherine.”   “Who is Katherine?”  Brenda pinched my nose, and I flinched. My mouth maintained a stricture as if I was about to kiss someone. I flinched again, and sweat was dripping from every corner of my lean body. The fever had not left me yet.  