Tonight, Janny is smiling    Janny stares at his slim and lean yet wealthy uncle amused. The man is giving flares of gesticulations and makes politically influenced comments as he watches the business section of the news. Uncle jumps up and down, points and waves at the television placed on a twentieth-century room divider. He’s so active for a wealthy man, Janny thinks. The stereotypical man of riches always lays reclined on the chair with his nourished hill of a belly, and the only activity he does is to instruct his employees and his maids what to do. His uncle is truly special, in a good way.   Janny stays on the sofa couch, fixated on his restless uncle who is so close to the television he could jump into it. Amidst the centre of the dark room, candles kindle.  Janny looks over at his mom who sees that her son is paying attention to her. She then appropriately grins, and the scars called wrinkles etched on her fragile face which were caused by hurt and low self-esteem shine delightfully with her good smile. Today, Cicilia promised her almost eleven-year-old son that she would not taste a sip of beer on this special occasion. She kept her promise. And Janny is grateful for that.   Janny knows why Cicilia drinks and sometimes understands the painful reason for it. Cicilia’s drinking started being a daily routine when Sayo left her after she fell pregnant. As a ladies’ man, Janny’s dad Sayo decided to hide this Cicilia to chase after other pregnantless Cicilias. Soon Sayo married a gold-mine of a wife without Cicilia’s knowledge. She only discovered the truth after neighbours jeered and judged her as she went for her maternal check-ups.   Cicilia always reminds Janny after returning from Queen’s tavern late that it was his fault that his father left her and married as she was pregnant with him. It was as if Cicilia was mad at Janny more than Sayo for disappointing her fairy-tale dream. But tonight, this evening, Cicilia smiles soberly at Janny across the room as a black forest cake with candles burning, and her son reciprocates with his own thankful smile.  Aunty arrives in the room with a tray of sweets and snacks. She places it beside the birthday cake and asks the reckless uncle to switch off the television so they can start the celebration. Aunty seems like the only grown-up in this room who has her life in order. She is a good woman – a good wife Janny admires.   Aunty is different from the other women of the village. For the village wives would always shout and nag their husbands until the husbands finally succumb to the grilling by going to their nearest tavern and huddle up together and share their pain.   Good women always marry bad husbands. Uncle is self-centred yet has the epitome of a wife by his side, why? Birthday boy Janny wonders. How does the world behave? That is the question that the eleven-year-old boy will have to figure out when he is older. But today is a day of only smiles and happiness. With the television turned off and mom straightening herself up, uncle sitting, and the joyful aunty rejoicing, the celebration begins.   Everyone finishes, “... Happy eleventh birthday Janny! Blow the candles!” Everyone cheers.   Janny blows all the candles out and everyone claps their hands. Mom Cicilia kisses him on the cheek and he smiles.   The family is smiling. Tonight, Janny is smiling.   