Khosi, What is a Man?    This is a story about a boy. A boy who grew and became a man, all by himself. A boy who battled and came out alive. A boy who was hurt, and in turn hurt many on his way to becoming who he is today. This is the story of a boy who sought direction and meaning in a world where it seemed absent for him, but available for others. This is the story of how a young man had to redefine manhood. It is not a beautiful story. It is not a profound story. It is my story. My name is Khosi.  I was born at home, in Khayelitsha in July 1983 to a single mother and three siblings. Everything from the water breaking to delivery happened so quickly, going to hospital was not an option. The neighbors helped my mother deliver and out came me. Her fourth child, her only son. I was small and frail. Well, that is what my sisters tell me. There are no pictures I can look at to refer back to, so I take their word for it. I grew up there, in Khayelitsha. If you know the area, I am sure you know it’s a “close-knit” community. Not only are the houses packed close together, but the community is united as well. We did not have much, it is not like any of the four men who fathered the children in this household paid child support. This was not unique to my household either. My mom did odd jobs here and there to make ends meet. My clothes were “hand-me-downs” from the older boys who lived on our street. My mum would get them cheap, and I guess that is how women helped one another out.   I played on those dusty yet muddy and dirty streets. I made friends. We pushed our wire bicycles and made soccer balls from plastics we collected and tied together. We educated one another about nonsense and always went back home dirty and exhausted, knowing our mothers were going to complain and shout. Most mothers did, but not my mother. My mother barely spoke. Looking back, I wonder how she even managed to conversate with four different men to build this family – but then again, that is none of my business. If she did speak, she was instructing that something be done or shouting that something was not done that should have been done. Her silence we interpreted as a lack of interest, and while as a kid you may get away with so much, you also miss out on the nurturing you so desperately need. So, we all grew up independent and probably more wayward than we should have been.  I did not get to go to primary school. I had to work and earn some money to help with our upkeep. “That is what a man does,” Mama used to say. “But I am not a man,” I used to mumble back, making sure she heard none of it. There really is only so much a small boy can do though. I washed blankets for the older ladies in the area. How? They would place the blanket in a big metal dish with water and soap, and I would step on it repeatedly for however long I was instructed to. It could be for hours, depending on the thickness and how dirty it was. It was tiring, but the old ladies sometimes gave me a sandwich with my small wage and that made it worth it.     I saw too much in the early years of my life. I stared hunger in the face many times. I was tasked with being a man and providing for a family long before my own voice had broken. Was this even “my” family to provide for? Where was my Dad, and why was he not providing for me? I looked as my mother became pregnant twice after me and how alcohol consumed her. I often took walks to the nearby tavern to get her favorite poison. I watched as my sisters followed suit, and all became mothers before they were eighteen. My eldest sister claimed she had been raped, but no one believed her. I saw sickness and death, as my mother and two younger siblings succumbed to HIV.   The men I saw in my community were not fathers. They were just men. They drank, they spread their seed, recklessly so, and they lived for no one but themselves. Themba’s father seemed to be the only exception. He actually came home to his family when he was not away in the Northern Cape mines working. He bought Themba new clothes and took care of Themba’s mother. He was the exception to the rule, but he was absent a lot.   “Khosi, is this you? Is this who you are going to become too?” My conscience did not agree with it, but I knew no better, and even consciences can harden. In my little caucus, we all had issues. We harassed women and raped a few girls – that is part of the nonsense us teenage boys talked about. There were no consequences for it, so why not? I robbed the very same old women I once washed blankets for. I too found comfort in the arms of alcohol and the embrace of “recreational drugs”. My sisters lived their own lives. You could barely identify us as siblings.   I found time to go to a youth center in Muzeinburg were I learnt how to read and write. I was nineteen years old then. Better late than never, I guess. I played pool and snooker there too. I even learnt how to swim and surf. I was terrified at first but quickly became a “water baby”.   The youth center felt like an escape of some sort. It gave me the crazy school of thought that there was more to life than what I had become accustomed to. They offered other services, like counselling, which I probably needed, but I was not that far inclined. I cared more for the activities. I behaved while I was there. I never caused commotion unless another man tried to infringe on my space or give instructions. I preferred the female coaches.   To my own surprise, I excelled in surfing and swimming and got an opportunity to train as a lifeguard. At twenty-six, I got my very first job as a lifeguard. I also got opportunities to train young children to swim at various schools in Cape Town. I moved out of Khayelitsha into my very own one-bedroom apartment in central Cape Town. It was not fancy, but it was more than just an upgrade. It felt like heaven. At work, I was a loner. I did my job and made every effort to avoid any trouble. I was fortunate enough to work with a good team; everyone minded their own business.  I got in and out of a string of meaningless relationships. Some ran concurrently and ended just because of that. Most ended because of statements like these: “You lack affection”, “You are controlling”, “You are violent, especially when you are drunk”, etc. It did not hurt or bother me. It simply was what it was – a failed relationship. I did land in a police station once for domestic violence, but she dropped the charges. My respect for women was at zero and could only be matched by my hatred of anything that represented a father figure. I could not help it. Authority did not go down well with me, and I resisted it at all costs, though I also wanted to wield it as a sword over the women who came in and out of my life. Call it hypocrisy.   One day, one of the schools where I was coaching swimming students had an inter-school swimming gala. I attended to cheer my students on. Parents attended too. I envied these little brats. Their parents actually cared. They took time off from work for a swimming gala. I watched them cheering and embracing their children. Appreciating every effort, even those who came last. I left early and drove back to my apartment in my little Volkswagen Golf in tears. A thirty-year-old man weeping. I shocked myself! I had never been a crier. I wept like a child for a long time. For the mother I wished had asked me to come home earlier and to stay away from bad company. For the father I wished had cared what I would wear and eat. For the sisters whom I had lost touch with and never tried to love and protect. For the countless women I had abused, both physically and emotionally, leaving them trapped in pain, rejection and brokenness. I wept for myself. A man now but carrying pain and hurt for three decades.   I knew I wanted to be better and do better, but I truly had no idea how. No one had ever shown me. I thought back to Themba’s father, but even that was not close enough to emulate. I knew I needed to break the cycle; it was a matter of how. Moving away from Khayelitsha had separated me from my previous friends who in ways influenced me, but my brokenness did not care where I lived, it followed me. It resided in me. Alcohol for years had been a pleasant distraction, but never a solution. My newly found “wealth” couldn’t fill the void I had inside me, and it did not soothe the pain I carried. I needed more than that. So, I returned to the youth center in Muzeinburg. Not exactly a youth anymore, but feeling like one. Eleven years later, I was back to get the counselling I had so adamantly rejected. There my journey to redefining who and what a man began. It started with crying, and now talking about the cruel past.   Now I know I am not a man because I have the strength to overpower, I am a man because I have strength to be able to protect. I am not a man because I can work and provide; I am a man because I choose to think beyond just myself and devote myself to those dear to me. I am not a man because I can donate sperm to procreate life; I am a man because I hold the ability to father and raise children. I am not a man because I can do whatever I want and not be held accountable; I am a man because I have the ability to be responsible and wise. I am not a man because I do not cry. I am a man because I have self-control and self-control is not the absence of emotion.   It has been a journey spanning over five years. Unlearning what I thought manhood was and realizing what it truly is. Teaching myself the value of each life and the importance of a family unit.   My name is Khosi. This is my story. A story of a broken boy who only ever saw the world through the lens of pain until Grace found him. Like I said, it is not a profound story. It is barely beautiful, but it is mine.  