The Ancestors’ Cry       Her waters broke; she knew instantly that the time had arrived. Without any delay, she called her husband. At that very moment her torment began. Moramang came in unsuspectingly to find her leaning against the table. He knew by the water beneath her that her labour had begun.   He was a simple chap, usually out in his yard, disinterested in village affairs. This always saved him from gossip, although men would at times mock him, saying that he was like a domesticated animal. He had a little house of just two rooms: a kitchen and a bedroom. His wife had borne him a daughter, Nthabeleng, who was now six years old.  He hurriedly called the village mid-wife, granny Boithatelo, and another neighbour, ‘m’e ’Maitumeleng. The former had delivered about two-thirds of the village’s middle-aged and young generation. She had performed the first delivery of ’Manthabeleng in this house before. She wasn’t surprised by the call as she had been keeping a close eye on the expectant mother and knew that her time was imminent.  Moramang then went to get the reed from the pond by the corner of his yard. It had to be cut from the forefront reed, which was surely in water, for life is given by that which is in water, and in it is that vitality that was known to breathe and sustain the life of a newborn. This was to be placed on the top of the door as a symbol of the newborn. Whether there were one or two reeds indicated the sex of the newborn. Men were prohibited from going beyond this point until the time of the child’s naming.  Having prepared the reed and fire to heat water, Moramang set off to inform his mother to come and help with the delivery and perform the birth rites of their clan. Upon arrival, with few words, he informed his mother, ’Mamoramang, of the situation. She stood up filled with joy and excitement. “We have a guest!” she jovially proclaimed with ululation. “May our great ancestors of Bataung and the great ancestor of our forefathers give us life. Oh, you with warm hands, your hands are white due to creating babies, you who stir water, may you splash water and give us life!” She sang while going to get her purse with some concoctions, beads, and the foot of a porcupine. These were to be used to invoke the ancestors’ protection against evil spirits and as a sign of welcome of the newborn into the clan.   Moramang found his father under the shade behind the house and shared with him the news which the old man received with awe and jubilation. The old man was the exact opposite of his son. He was outspoken and would jump from one topic to another in a split second.   As the two remained together, the old man spoke at length on his lamentation over not having fulfilled his duty to give food to his father, who had appeared to him in his dreams. “Did I tell you of the latest dream?” he asked.   “No, you haven’t,” Moramang responded, initially disinterested.  “Your grandfather has appeared these past few weeks, crying bitterly that he is hungry. It has been countless times now, and I can’t sleep anymore.” He gave the harrowing details of the scenes in his dreams and the sad and enraged voice of his ancestor’s cry. He was worried about his old age and his increasing dependence. His deepest fear was to die having not pleased his ancestors who would, in turn, refuse to welcome him should he leave the world of the living without heeding their call. It was such a great privilege to live a good life and to be welcomed and revered as an ancestor after death.   “All my livestock was cruelly shaved away by villainous villains years ago. Your grandfather was a well-heeled man who deserves nothing but a sheep for his satisfaction. I can’t belittle him with a chicken. He will never be at peace!” The old man spoke with a strong voice filled with the command of an elder. He was tormented by the fear of punishment borne of his disobedience. It would be a curse for him to fail in his duty, and a great calamity might befall him. His deepest fear lay in his foresight of the fury that would manifest itself in incurable diseases killing him slowly and depriving him of a proper burial.   “I cannot risk waiting for too long. The ancestors’ patience has long been put to the test, and they will delay to welcome me when I die. Come to my aid!” The words of the commanding old man went down to the abyss of Moramang’s soul who meditated deeply and devoured every detail of his father’s lamentation. The old man continued to warn his son about the danger to the expected child if the ancestors cried foul.   In a flash, Moramang put things together and saw how difficult things had become. He recalled that he had been unemployed for about a year and that, in a few months, Nthabeleng would be due to begin her first year at school. He felt cold blood run down his back as the amount of money required was projected in his imagination. He couldn’t figure out any possible means available to him to respond to all these needs. He sat in deep thought, scratching and shaking his head. He had to make hard choices, as is always the case in life.  “Grandpa really picked a bad time. I am hardly making ends meet and Nthabeleng ought to commence her primary education next year. Yet my economic situation continues to see no improvement; only more depression.” His response was honest and avoided empty promises. He could not commit to what he could hardly fulfil – an art which remained lacking in the multitudes of the mighty land, who took pride in uttering promises which never saw the light of day.   “We have a prior duty to the living, I suppose, especially the young ones. We should prioritise them. However, I will keep it in mind and try to make a plan,” thus responded Moramang after considerable thought. This was a man who stood between sixes and sevens: he had a choice to make. He then remained paralyzed in front of his father. His great paralysis lay in the choice between the ancestors or his children’s future. Only one could suffice.   The old man saw things differently. He was irritated and getting disappointed in his son whom he had raised so well. He saw in his utterances a deficiency, if not a deviation from the true precepts of their tradition. He could not understand his son’s daring to demean the sacrosanct ancestors with the idea of choice.   “You cannot talk about the ancestors like that; they are the ones who give life and blessings. It is to them our priority ought to be given for we look up to and we live all our lives to be them. We are nothing without them. We are because they are. They are the end in which our becoming finds its meaning and fulfilment. They protect us and grant their blessings; they curse if they have to and bad luck befalls. They intercede for us to the great ancestor, and rain falls and prosperity fills the earth. We have to acknowledge them, especially at this critical moment when they have to breathe life into the newborn. They are the ones to stir the water of life, and breathe into the child the vital principle, which by acknowledgement breathes and sustains life, lest the infant be exposed to all sorts of evils or find complications leading to its death.” The old man responded sagaciously, hoping it would awaken his son who seemed to be in a cultural slumber – like many of us.  The mention of the child’s need for protection caused some perturbation in Moramang, who took the advantage to ask for the child’s name. “Thato is the name, whether a boy or a girl.” The name was given momentarily, and Moramang knew exactly what it meant: the ancestors’ will had to be fulfilled. Moramang wouldn’t dare challenge the given name.   On the other side, the women were having a successful delivery. Ululations were heard as a sign of happiness. A handsome baby boy was born. The first bath was to be performed by the grandmother. The water was mixed with some herbs and algae collected by Moramang at the pond. The former was for protection and strength. To the latter belonged the source of life. It is highly regarded that life is given by that which is in water and in it there is vitality that breathes and sustains the life of a newborn.   granny Boithatelo then took the infant carefully, looking for birthmarks and physical disabilities. Amid ululations and joy, the cry of the infant caught her attention. She then presented the infant to the mother who had been tended to by ’Maitumeleng. “Receive your present, fruit of your labour.”  ’Manthabeleng took her newborn gladly and dressed him up. She then pressed the first milk to the floor in acknowledgement of the receipt of the newborn. She mixed that milk with dust on the floor and made small crosses on the head, hands and feet of the infant so that the ancestors could easily recognise their gift as they pass by.   ’Mamoramang also came with some of her concoctions to anoint the infant and put the porcupine foot bracelet around his neck. She then went to dig a small pit by the entrance of the bedroom where the umbilical cord would be buried after it dried and fell off. The infant couldn’t go beyond this point. The day was closed up, and the infant would be ritually named.   The infant continued crying as ’Manthabeleng gave him the first nourishment of breastmilk. The infant leapt jovially in receiving its nourishment. The cry then became like a benign melody of a well-played orchestra. But this calm cry was brief, followed by a violent cry of lamentation. granny Boithatelo kept note of this cry, knowing that its meaning was still to be found.  On the other side, Moramang had been meditating upon the task he was called to fulfil. He finally broke the long silence: “I am still perturbed by what is our responsibility and to whom we ought to give it. In front of me, is a question of means to pursue the ends of my life. The ends are obscure and shady. My duty is torn between the most innocent, fragile and dependent of all on one side, and the other side characterised by the most demanding ones who have had a fair chance of their life.” He continued, “Father, I have a baby being born. Enlighten me to what extent the ancestors can press on us a duty of offering food to them over the children? Above all, by a man who can hardly make ends meet! I am bamboozled by this situation.”  “I envy your courage to question such a fundamental truth of our life, my son,” responded the old man with awe. “Your inquiry is perilous and lacks timing. You are angering the grandparents with your lack of faith. These questions are never asked,” the old man continued with fear of the fury of the ancestors, especially with the presence of a newborn who needed their protection. He offered a counter-defence: “Have you forgotten that you need to offer them a sheep for this child to be accepted in their clan? Will they accept if you are questioning their authority and duty due to them? You should be ashamed of yourself; we did not raise you to be like this.”  The old man was bereaved by his son’s sudden cultural dearth. He wondered how a simple young adult of the village, without any formal education or Christian influence, could dare challenge the ancestors. These were things heard of those who were educated and looked upon their culture as inferior or with embarrassment. Apart from the “educated” ones, are those who, through Christian baptism, were liberated from the shame of the “backwardness” of their culture, and proclaimed the gospel of salvation.   On the other side, Moramang wouldn’t easily relent, but he was determined to seek understanding so as to live an authentic life with his people. He still had a strong thirst that he thought the old man, through his experience and wisdom, could quench for good. Yet, each answer seemed to increase his thirst and curiosity.   “I hear you father. I am sorry for making you question the way you raised me. Despite what you have said, you didn’t provide any solution but brought more confusion. This is the right moment to ask these questions because it doesn’t seem a choice like this can be made habitually, or in a manner you suggest. It seems more reasonable to take care of the living first. The ancestors had their time to live, then they passed on leaving us behind. If we had all the means, it would be easy to provide for our needs and theirs.  “If we do not give to the ancestors, they have power to cause harm. If we give them, I believe they have power to shower us with prosperity, wellbeing and protection. By having such enormous powers, I find it easy to believe that they have power to hold on for some time until we are able to satisfy their needs. Look, on the other hand, Nthabeleng is completely dependent on me; she lacks any power to dictate harm or wellbeing. She only has a will to be given a life well-lived, and it is us who can make that possible: to feed her, to clothe her, and offer her shelter and education. The newborn’s dependency need not be mentioned.   “Furthermore, if we don’t give ancestors food, will they be harmed in any corporeal way to the extent of dying again? This is what I know: Nthabeleng and the newborn will die if we don’t satisfy their needs. They will live a short time and end in thin air. We would have failed them twice and denied them life either here or among the ancestors. To who, I beseech, do we owe an immediate duty?”  There was pin-drop silence after these questions. While that seemed to be too much already, the tormented soul continued in his assertions which he fired endlessly like a machine gun in battle. “If the ancestors were very protective over us, why after having obeyed them all the yesteryears do I still live with poverty and unemployment? Wouldn’t they be so considerate and offer me some more time until I am able to offer them some sacrifice and some schnapps? I wish I had a way to speak with them. I would humbly question them myself, maybe they would answer me satisfactorily, or at least take pity on me until the time I will be able to satisfy them. Maybe I am still young for them to come and demand of me like they do of you father. Could you speak on my behalf and present my case next time grandpa comes to you? If not, could you please ask him at least to come to me so that I can present my case to him?”  The atmosphere had changed. It was obvious that the old man had no answers. His reluctance to respond was not surprising at all. It is a common reaction of proponents of the sacred tradition which they received without question. He didn’t only feel disrespected; his whole being was fully challenged and undermined. Throughout his life, he never dared to question even once his ancestral customs. The old man meditated on the misfortune which his son had just called upon himself. If ever he could repent, the old man thought to himself, things would change.  The old man’s response was thus simple and straightforward, “You are old enough to bear the burden and curse you have brought on yourself. I have nothing more to say on this matter, except that they will speak for themselves.” The old man spoke with a saddened voice as if he had not said anything substantial on the matter.   At that moment, jubilations were heard by the yard. ’Mamoramang charged to beat Moramang with her cane. What joy filled the hearts of the men who were in sorrow a minute earlier! With joy and happiness, he jumped up singing praises for the heir was born. Five years ago he was poured with a bucket full of water when Nthabeleng was born. Today a warrior is born, the heir to his household.   Upon reaching his house to meet his heir, he said praises which were received with ululation and whistles from neighbours who shared in the joy. A few men gathered to sing with him a sacred song dedicated to such an event. Creating a circle with their sticks held up high like victors of war, they chanted with an aura of victory that went deep inside the soul of the participants and the women and children watching.  Celebrating life was an integral activity for this community. Life was principled in unity, and the sharing of joy and happiness or the loss of a loved one. As they jovially sang, dust rose up like incense offered to the ancestors, and creation was in perfect unison. The sun went down rhythmically to the abyss of its resting place behind the mountains. The dust in the air at sunset gave it a more golden hue, and the sky faded out slowly under a thin cloud covering. They were gathering in this yard for the second time now; everyone appreciated this blessing. Little did they know that tomorrow they would gather at the same place singing a different song.   The crowd dispersed after a good time of raucous celebration. Moramang went inside to meet his son. He marvelled with joy and gave a handful of kisses to his son while he noted a unique vibrant cry which he declared would make the boy a good singer. To this declaration, granny Boithatelo added that more is to be expected from that cry. Only then did others become aware of it. The orchestra of this cry got them all looking at each other. Nothing like this was heard of before; not even the experienced midwife ever met with this kind of cry. Nthabeleng marvelled at the newborn. Such a noise was never heard from a newborn before. They were all filled with awe.  In no time, all began to change. The baby started to cry out violently, and all efforts to embrace and feed him were hopeless. All the women took a turn trying to comfort the baby, but he cried more violently. An array of thoughts were shared and debated as to the cause of the sudden violent cry. They applied concoctions and burnt some shrubs which are used as incense to invoke the ancestors’ spirits to heed and calm the child.  The fragile tiny chest couldn’t hold much longer. The infant choked and his pain was so bad they thought there was damage to his organs. The thought of going to the clinic was the least. The nearest clinic was four hours walking distance during the day, and twice as long at night. It was now around seven in the evening. All the family gathered around without any suggestions. They were hoping against despair while the inevitable was becoming true. With a soft fading cry, the infant gave up. A daunting silence filled the house.  The heir was gone. Bewildered and filled with disbelief, Moramang walked out sorrowfully without a word. ’Manthabeleng burst out in a loud cry that penetrated the horrifying quietness of the night. Nthabeleng was awakened by the loud cry of her mother. Careful not to let her see what was happening, ‘m’e ’Maitumeleng carried her out before she was fully awake and went to lay down her in her house. After she slept for a while, someone whispered in her ear about the demise of her brother. Death was never directly told to children.  Villagers were now gathering at Moramang’s house after the loud cry they heard. They could tell that, like many other African babies, the infant has passed on. They prepared a huge fire for warmth against the chilly Highland night and to boil water as they mourned with the family. Having informed the local chief, at dawn, some men went to dig a grave. The women remained in the house around the tiny covered corpse singing songs of consolation. Those who had joined a religion would sing religious songs filled with messages of hope and abandonment to God.  However, it was a feast also. Celebrating death, the only inevitable reality following birth, was a sacred feast. In the case of older people, it was celebrated as a farewell for one who had passed on to the realm of the ancestors. For a short-lived life like this, the soul was offered back to the chief ancestor, the creator.   The sun rose as the people gathered in the corner of the yard where the grave was dug. In peace he was buried. A few prayers were made followed by a sacred song, calling upon the creator to accept this soul and to graciously grant another child. No speeches were made for such a burial. When sunlight reached the village, it was all over. Everyone washed their hands in aloe-steeped water and went about their business.  It was a warm spring day. The family remained cleaning up and mourning together. Nthabeleng was greatly disappointed by the immediate disappearance of her singing brother. She persisted in questioning her mother. “Where did he go? I want to go to him and hear him,” she said. She was tricked to go out and play with the other children.   It was just before five in the afternoon when shepherds were herding their cattle home from the fields adjacent to the village, and dark clouds were forming quickly. Rising from the south, they covered the whole valley in just a few minutes over unsuspecting children enjoying their afternoon play on the streets. Flashes of lightning followed by enormous sounds of thunder dispersed children who now felt threatened. Parents stood by their yards calling for their children to run home. Women hurriedly picked firewood to keep in the house before it rained. Some, like ’Mamoramang, hurried to remove clothes from the lines and on the kraal. The shepherds hurried their flock home for shelter. It was an African thunderstorm; the first of that spring.   Moramang stood outside, calling for Nthabeleng who was entering the gate running with all her might. She was full of tears. When the round of strong lightning struck, and the loud thunder followed, she stood paralyzed and cried even more. She then started off again towards the house. In the middle of the yard, a few meters from the house where Moramang stood waiting, another powerful lightning bolt struck, blinding his eyes temporarily.   It was a split second too late when he opened his eyes. Clearing his eyes, he perceived what he thought was a dream. He saw his little daughter lying on the ground, charred by the enormous strike of lightning. Running towards her with disbelief, he cried out in anger and knelt down before her with the greatest sorrow. It was a moment too late. She was gone.  Everyone in the house came out to find out what had transpired. It was already a great shock to hear such a loud cry from Moramang. ’Manthabeleng couldn’t bear the sight of that lifeless body looking like a beast roasted on the fire; it broke her to pieces. She collapsed instantly. The old man approached with his only surviving sibling, Moramang’s uncle, to try to help. It was too late; nothing could be done anymore to change the situation. ’Mamoramang and ’Maitumeleng, were busy trying to resuscitate ’Manthabeleng who had collapsed.  As for the men, it was unbearable and unbelievable. Moramang broke into tears, something that was hardly seen from a man in this community, for a man is a sheep, he doesn’t cry. He had celebrated the love of his children; in response, death snatched them with a snap of a finger.  His uncle ran into the house and got a blanket which they wrapped the corpse with. It was getting darker, and the rattling noise of rain nearby proved that it was approaching rapidly. Moramang was out of touch with reality. He didn’t even notice the two men taking the body into the house. Just then it started raining. They helped to carry ’Manthabeleng inside the house and then took Moramang into the house, who looked like he had an encounter with a ghost.   “Why? Why?” he cried out viciously. The other two men remained quiet with their heads down. The heavy cloud of sorrow had befallen everyone. ’Manthabeleng gained consciousness and started crying bitterly once she reconnected with reality. “What wrong did I do? Why my children? Not in one day!” she asked endless unanswered questions. Other women tried consoling her while swallowing their sorrow. ’Mamoramang couldn’t take it in either. She had lost all her grandchildren in one day. She wondered who could have bewitched this family. There was nothing else she could think of. In such villages, it is thought that everything has a cause which is certainly true.   Turning to the old man, Moramang charged, “Could you tell me please, look, my children are gone, in a snap of a finger, I have lost both of them. What have I done?”  The old man, tapping Moramang’s shoulder, responded, “If you laid down your arms against them, it all wouldn’t have gone this way. I warned you, but you wouldn’t heed me. You can never go against our ancestors. Their fiery will is beyond measure and unstoppable.”  “No! It cannot be! I do not accept it. Why did they do this to me? All I wanted was an answer. All I demanded was to know what to do,” Moramang responded hopelessly.   “There is an answer now, although it had to come the hard way,” replied the old man with conviction.   After a brief silence, Moramang lodged a new case. “They are no longer as good as you say they are. Their anger goes deep to the abyss of my heart. It draws all my soul out of me. If they were so hungry, how could they hit me so hard? They definitely have energy to hold on until I am able to provide for them. I never refused, what I did was only to question my responsibility, given the circumstances of my poverty. It is better for them not to be so that I can be free from blame or dependence. If it is them, then my trust in their protection and blessings is dead. They murdered it as they murdered my children. Today I have tasted a bitter cup of sorrow that shall never leave my memory. The cry of that infant haunts my mind and the sight of smoke coming up from the charred body of my daughter paralyzes me.   “All I have known is a hard life of poverty and unemployment. Where are the blessings? Look over there, my wife is not consoled, and in pain due to the mighty, hungry ancestors. No, let them not be so that I can be free. Or give me conviction that I can have a founded belief, not a forced one. What could I still render to them? I am nothing and possess nothing! Show me where to find them and let me do away with them. I will kill them all so that no one will ever feel this sorrow that I have. Couldn’t they have chosen a better way to respond? Why, I ask, why? Father tells me to lay down my arms while I am armless and harmless. All I wanted was some light to brighten my darkness.”  By the end of this long inquiry, the rain stopped, and the thunderstorm went away. The sky cleared up, and the full moon gave light to the night. However, the shadows in the valley surrounding the village left it in darkness. Neighbours could hear the cry of ’Manthabeleng. To some, it was mourning of her first infant’s death, but curiosity over Moramang’s fury left some puzzled. As the news spread of the happenings that evening, the whole neighbourhood was in great shock. Men and women gathered with hands on their heads, shaking them in disbelief. The question that is still asked to this day is who could have mastered this malediction.   Having cooled down, Moramang and the collage of men decided to wait until dawn to dig the second grave as the ground was too wet from the rain. A sad and tormenting vigil was held throughout the night. At dawn, the grave was dug quietly, and as the sun threw its first rays on the village, Nthabeleng was laid to rest, and the sacred song was sung once again.  