When the sun is up    Twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four...  The headmaster’s bell jingled to signal the end of his high-pitched tirade; an all too familiar rant that since lost its potency, due to its frequency. The man’s thick lips danced from shape to shape, his brownish teeth peeking through, with specks of spittle flying all around his freckled face. The redness of his bulgy eyes was further pronounced with an army of thin red lines zigzagging through them.  It was the first day after midterm break, and the headmaster had embarked on the laborious task of singlehandedly whipping all seventeen latecomers; it hardly mattered who anyone was. The school’s rusty gates sat between a clumsy cluster of unplastered bricks that was the fence, and facing it was a huge clock hanging on the side of a building. When the long arms of the clock arrived at eight o’clock, all who were unlucky to be on the other side of the fence got the whip.   This whole beating episode came just after the headmaster introduced a new student; a tall boy who stood out like a lone chalk mark on a blackboard, white-faced and transfixed as the headmaster’s whip endlessly flung up and crashed into the backs of the offending, and loudly wailing latecomers.   Twenty-five, twen...  Stop... You are distracting me, Ewa protested; a silent murmur beneath her breath.  At first, Soso paused, pretending to heed Ewa. The music teacher’s flute was starting to render the introductory tune to the school’s anthem, while the drummers were sounding out the solitary bangs that led up to the flurry of beating on their aged set of drums as the anthem grew on. Among the drums, there was a rusty pole sitting in between stones that held it erect, pieces of flat metal discs surrounding the pole near its tip, completing the set of beatables.  The entire assembly was soon chorusing the lazy lyrics of the school anthem. In the crowd of voices, Ewa could make out Soso’s; thin like hair strands, broken into very many fragments that swelled collectively into a bubble, keeping most of the rest of the crowd out. She had started to count again.  Ewa knew the school anthem was just a few more slumbered lines to go before the assembly moved on to the national anthem, and then all the pupils would lift and stamp their feet one after the other in soldier mode for the country’s soundtrack. Soso would get confused then and give up counting, instead switching to a vocal mimicry of the stamping of the many feet: gba, gba, gba, gba... So, Ewa let her count: thirty, thirty-one, thirty-two...  The white-faced boy still stood rooted to his spot, his white face wearing a faint squint. His thin arms were clasped timidly before his iron-pressed shorts, and his long legs disappeared into plain black socks sprouting from a pair of Kito sandals. His bleached hair was well combed and he looked every inch like he had meticulously prepared for his first day, only to be shocked with scenes of brutal whipping that would make him ponder if he wanted to be there at all.  Ewa wondered if he’d noticed her. He, without doubt, shouldn’t find it hard to see that in that small multitude, she was the only one that was truly like him; the only other chalk smear on that immaculate blackboard. She had her eyes on him before Soso seized them to count socks lined up in imperfect rows around her, and now that Soso was on ‘gba gba gba’, she could finally look-stalk him again.  She maintained a gaze and waited for his head to turn off his now statue-like figure and look her way. All through the two stanzas of the national anthem and Soso’s nagging chant of gba gba gba, he didn’t, and a cloud of smoke fumed faintly around the walls of her mind, choking Soso and herself.   ‘Maybe he doesn’t see in daylight,’ Soso said, waving away a loose strand of smoke rising before her, and almost breaking into a cough.   Ewa mulled the thought, and then strained her eyes a little more, leaning forward to maybe see if Soso was right.   ‘But you can’t know just by looking Ewa,’ Soso mocked.   Mean laughter broke out just beside Ewa, lending sound to Soso’s mockery. It was Chuka, a boy from her class. He was pointing a dirty-nailed finger at her and infecting a few others with his mockery laugh.  ‘I told you she can’t see when the sun is up,’ he said.  ‘I bet that new one too can’t...’ rejoined another.  The assembly had dispersed, and most of the other kids were already shuffling through the crowd of uniforms, toward their classes. Ewa pulled on the straps of her backpack to tighten it on her back and looked away from the boys, turning to escape into the boring class that would define her morning, ’til the loud and piercing clanging of the bell rescued her again at midday.   It was as she turned that she saw the new boy’s eyes centred on her; his long socked-legs slowly moving him forward in her direction.  ***  Soso had positioned herself at the windows of Ewa’s ears, bouncing off all other sounds in anticipation of the break-time bell. Ewa could see the teacher’s mouth locked in a lengthy dance as he taught the class, but she was deaf to it all, thanks to Soso.   Ewa could have pushed Soso off those windows, but the truth was she was just as excited as the entirety of her mind, and she too couldn’t wait for the break-time bell to toll. When it finally did toll, she didn’t have to go look for him.   She had just slotted her books into the raised lid of her desk when she looked up to find him looking in through a nearby window, his head framed in a space left vacant by several missing louvers.   ‘I saw them laughing at you,’ he had said earlier in the morning after walking up to her and introducing himself. ‘Do they do that very often?’  ‘Well, I don’t see when the sun is up, so I don’t see anybody when I’m here.’  ‘So you can’t see me now?’ he asked with a hint of sarcasm.  ‘You are not anybody. You’re like me.’ They both smiled their way up the flushed steps to the long corridor that stretched out before all the classrooms, joining them together. They agreed to seek out each other at break-time.  She studied him carefully as she stepped out of her classroom to join him on the corridor. She was used to the staring and the teasing. She could see they were doing the same to him now, but he didn’t seem to notice or care enough to show it if he did. His eyes had stayed on her and followed her all the way from her seat ’til she was standing before him.   ‘The headmaster seems a little less angry now,’ he said as they walked side by side to the tuck shop.  ‘How do you mean?’ she asked.  ‘He rang the bell too faintly than he did in the morning.’  ‘Oh... He only rings it during assembly, Chuka rings at other times.’  ‘Who is Chuka?’  ‘We both saw him point a dirty finger at me in the morning, laughing at me with his friends.’  ‘Oh, I saw,’ he remarked jokingly. ‘But I thought you don’t see anybody when you’re here?’  ‘In case you don’t know, albinos actually do see at all times, like everybody else.’  ‘I should know... I can see you, and I can see the sign in the distance that says ‘tuck shop.’’  Ewa laughed. The boy laughed. Soso laughed, infecting Ewa with more laughter. The boy moved the light grey centre of his eyes to the side where Ewa was, his expression wondering what else was funny.   At the tuck shop, they ate in silence for a while, and then he asked, ‘why does a bully ring the bell?’  She paused the grinding of her teeth, the food in her mouth stuck in mid-crush as she eyed him silently. Then she resumed grinding, swallowed and said, ‘he convinced everyone I can’t see in the afternoon.’  The boy’s grey irises lit up and shone brightly, ‘really?’  ‘The student with the best result from the previous term rings the bell,’ she explained, ‘that was me, but I missed break-time on my first day, and he told the headmaster it’s because I couldn’t read the clock. His result was second-best, so they replaced me with him.’  He listened silently, his bright irises gathering more gleam.  ‘They will notice me less if I don’t have the best result this time, so I’ve stopped trying.’  He trudged his spoon all around the edges of his plate for a while, pushing his food from one edge to the other. The plate and spoon clatter was all the sound around their small table for a while, then his voice broke the silence again, ‘why did you miss the break-time?’  ‘Chuka asked me to help him copy a note. I was rushing to get it done, and he said he would help me with the bell.’    The next day, at midday, Ewa looked expectantly out of the classroom window, straining her ears for the sound of the bell, half expecting it not to ring. Soso swam around in her mind, break-dancing, waltzing, shaku-shakuing, zankuing, gbeseing, happy that Ewa would see the albino boy again in minutes.   After school the day before, he had said before they departed, ‘I won’t let them ring that bell again, ’til they give it back to the right person.’ He had a rigid determination glued on his face.  ‘I don’t want it,’ she retorted, ‘and you don’t want them to start with you.’  ‘Where I’m from, they kill albinos for rituals. I’ve lived all my life there before coming here,’ he grimaced, ‘so, I’m sorry your scarecrows here don’t scare me.’  He was already walking away to catch the bus, his backpack hanging on to him like a turtle’s uneven shell.   ‘Why then did you look like you would enter the ground when headmaster whipped latecomers during assembly?’ Ewa shot her words into his back. He playfully turned around to face her, still moving towards the bus, with his back to it.  ‘I saw an albino in the line and I couldn’t imagine she was being beaten like that.’  Ewa had smiled, and she was smiling now when the bell rang. Soso was smiling too.  The classes emptied into the long corridor and the large field beyond it. The bell didn’t stop tolling and had started to feel like a careless alarm going off with reckless abandon. Ewa pushed her way through the bodies of uniforms standing in her view, ’til she was standing in front of the other students as they all glared at the tall albino boy. He was jingling the bell animatedly with both hands, while everyone else pulled on masks of surprise, holding their mouths apart to allow the masks to sit fittingly.   She didn’t see him again ’til the next morning at assembly. Soso wasn’t counting socks this morning. She was sobbing because the albino was being whipped. He had told the principal he rang the bell on behalf of the right ringer, and that further infuriated the man.  The bell wasn’t taken from Chuka, but the event gave confidence back to Ewa. She rejoined the debate group, and the quiz group, and the drama group. She had very little choice after the albino boy joined all three. The groups had all been sad to see her go anyway, except for Chuka, of course. He became the best they had after she left, and while everyone else was happy to have her back, he didn’t pretend to share their sentiments.  You see, the albino boy had a plan, and after sharing it with Ewa, she couldn’t deny that it was brilliant. That was why she allowed him to talk her into rejoining the groups. All three of the groups were already preparing for PTA presentation coming up at the end of the term, and that was perfect timing.   The debate topic was shared with Ewa, and her rehearsals began. She was to be the first speaker to debate before the crowd of parents and teachers on the day. The albino boy practised with her every break time. As it drew nearer, Soso’s panic grew, and Ewa almost pulled out, but the boy was always there, encouraging her, and reassuring her that it would all work out.   Ewa nursed no illusions that it would not be Chuka’s day when the results were announced, because it really was his. He bested his class, and indeed the entire school, and thus his bell-ringer status was retained. Ewa’s result came in at a distant third in her class, and eleventh overall. The albino boy did not bother with the positions. ‘I always do double figures, big big things...’ he joked when Ewa asked about his result.  Soso’s mood swung her from one corner of Ewa’s mind to the other. By the time Ewa stepped behind the microphone in the crowded hall for her presentation, Soso had withdrawn further and further into the shadows of her consciousness, enveloped in fear.   A thin voice filtered through the public address system, announcing the topic of the debate: Equality among Boys and Girls in Our Schools.  Ewa’s heart pounded hard against the inside of her chest, but the excitement on the albino boy’s white face spurred her on. She browsed through the sea of guests seated facing the stage ’til she saw her mother; a beautiful and bright smear of chalk, plastered boldly in the front-row of the blackboard that was her audience.   She cleared her throat and her voice filled up the brightly decorated hall, climbing into the ears of all within range, in and outside the hall, as she spoke into the microphone before her.  ‘Dear headmaster and distinguished teachers; our loving and able parents; my co-debaters; and fellow students... all protocols duly observed...   ‘The Yoruba word for beauty is Ewa. My name is Ewa, and I am a beautiful creature of God, just like you. My mother knows this, and you can tell by how she named me...’  There was a slight commotion in the debaters’ corner on the stage; teachers and pupils turning to themselves, all wearing questioning expressions. No one tried to stop Ewa though, so she continued.   ‘...there are one hundred and twelve feet on the assembly ground; all from fifty-six pupils, including late-comers. Forty-eight of these pupils wear socks and eight do not. I know this because I counted them. I was able to count because contrary to what Chuka and the school believe, albinos can see when the sun is up...’  The headmaster sat aghast, anger and remorse struggling for space on his sweaty face. Blood drained into the thin lines in his eyes, turning them into tiny red ropes, making him seem like he was in some kind of pain.   Someone held out a white handkerchief to him. It was the albino boy. His white face beamed with smiles because he alone had heard that speech before, and he alone knew that it would end with Ewa asking to be installed as the bell-ringer in the coming term, and for an unreserved apology from the headmaster and the school.  As the thunder of applause for Ewa’s speech subsided, Soso ceremoniously moon-walked out of the shadows in a gleaming Michael Jackson-styled leather outfit. She spun around to slide forward on both knees, just in time to see the back of one pupil running out of the hall, crying profusely.   The announcer called the next speaker, and everyone turned to look at Chuka. Some of the tears still sat on the edge of the wooden chair, drying gradually into the wood, but Chuka himself was nowhere to be found.  