The Poem of 99: Sunset Road    The air was thick and brackish, and the wind cried in Edin’s ears. Normally he would have found such a high-pitched sound maddening, but this time its monotonous song blocked out the other noises he hated to hear…    It had been Midas and Willem’s idea to leave. “To drive until we reach the sunset,” Willem had said. Being the eldest of the five, they knew better than the rest what life was really like. Dougie impatiently dragged Edin by his sleeve down the orphanage stairs with a tremendous racket. A racket that fitted the moment far better than Edin’s orange shirt fitted his chest. Edin was a quiet coloured boy made more bone than meat, whose slight build meant the oversized clothes donated to the orphanage often didn’t fit him. Simon’s hoarse ululations echoed through the old building’s halls, and Edin knew then; it was going to be something magnificent. It would be a moment in time that would be etched in the boys’ memories.   Dougie squealed with delight.   “Willem and Midas bought a car!” he exclaimed. “It’s a Cortina Estate, Edin.” Dougie placed Edin’s fawn hand on the tepid bonnet. To Edin, a Cortina was just another growling metal lump. He would have loved to experience the same elation his ‘brothers’ felt about the car, but he simply couldn’t. To Edin, all cars looked the same. That is if they even looked the way he imagined them, for God had not blessed him with the joy and beauty of vision, but rather damned him to eternal darkness.  “What colour is it?” Edin asked shyly. Although it meant nothing to him, he at least wanted to show an interest in his brothers’ success. He felt Midas’ arm wrap around his shoulder.   “The ocean,” Midas replied. He couldn’t miss Midas’ voice – there was something comforting in its exoticness. Edin’s teacher had told him that Midas’ peculiar accent was because his father was a Chinese man and his mother a coloured woman.   “The teal of tropical waves that crash onto the pebbles,” he continued. Edin didn’t know what either of those descriptions really entailed, but he sensed that Midas found it beautiful. And as far as he was concerned, whatever Midas found beautiful so did he…  Teal. Edin huffed and groaned. Miss Knight looked up from her work, startled, “And then, Edin?” Miss Knight had been the only teacher at the local school to bother with him. The day she arrived in the dank classroom, she brought light into Edin’s empty world. He recalled how she had leaned over his desk and asked him if he needed help. The satin cloth of her loose shirt brushed against his arm, and her elegant rosy fragrance made his senses dance. Her fragrance wasn’t the cheap sticky one that Midas’ fiancée wore – that putrid one that suffocated him and made his nostrils burn.   His previous teachers had often found that his disability inconvenienced their teaching style, so they merely thrust work onto him, expecting him to “maak ’n plan” before calling him “stupid” or “a dunce” when he failed to complete the task. Miss Knight took a special interest in him. She understood the financial situation of the orphanage and offered to teach Edin for free. He stopped attending the school and for the last three years had been taught by Miss Knight instead in the late afternoons and on weekends. Edin thrived on the individual contact and was hungry to learn. It wasn’t long before the creative embers began to glow in him; Miss Knight had found in him a literary prodigy. But creativity came with a hefty price for someone who couldn’t see the things he wished to describe.  “How does teal smell?” he asked frustratedly. He assumed by her silence that she couldn’t think of an answer, so he changed his question.  “How does the ocean smell?”   “Indescribable. Something between warm, crisp and salty. It’s fresh like no other air,” she said, closing her eyes and savouring the moment. Edin had never been to the beach, and the only air he knew was of his Karoo home, Albertinia. The mist that rolled down the mountains at dawn and the thick smell of tamatiebredie in the afternoons. As definite and unchanging as the people on their stoeps drinking whisky and soetwyn as they lead the same dull lives in this klein dorpie as the generations before them. Edin’s mind wandered.  “What about Cape Town’s air? Cape Town is by the sea. Is its air fresh?” he asked.  “To an extent, yes. It’s not as fresh as the air of a tropical Eden,” she replied.  “Why’s that?”  She smiled at his curiosity. “There are lots of people, cars and buildings in Cape Town which produce smoke. It makes the air sad and heavy.”   Edin contemplated this for a moment. “Sooo…” he began slowly, “It’s like when Midas has a smoke behind the bicycle shed and tells me not to stand to close because it’s bad for me.”  “Midas shouldn’t be smoking at the orphanage,” she said solemnly.  “You won’t get him in trouble, will you? He says he can’t help it because he’s addicted.”  She chuckled. “I guess not.”  “Does that mean the people in Cape Town get angry when they leave?”  Miss Knight looked at Edin in confusion. “Why would they get angry?”  Edin frowned. “Well… not angry… grouchy. Like Midas. Midas is always grouchy when he gets home from school because he can’t have a smoke at school.”  “Oh, Edin,” she chuckled, “People aren’t addicted to the air they breathe.”  She ambled towards him. She picked up a sheet of paper with scrawly handwriting that lay next to his braille dictionary. “What’s this?” she asked.   “It’s a poem,” he said, “About Midas’ fiancée.” She frowned as she read the poem. He couldn’t see it, but he sensed she was frowning. He learnt that most adults did when someone told them a harsh truth.   “It’s not a very nice poem.”  “Well, I don’t really like Bianca, and sometimes the truth isn’t very nice, but you have to face it.” Miss Knight couldn’t dispute his argument.   “Just make sure she doesn’t see it. It might upset her,” she suggested.  “It should upset her,” he replied bitterly before rising from his seat with his braille dictionary in his hand. He greeted his teacher with a warm hug and left with his hand trailing against the cold jonquil painted wall.   Edin’s fingers followed the strip of peeling floral wallpaper that ran through the centre of the wall, to the matron’s office where he heard Dougie’s voice. Dougie’s small shadow drifted out the doorway.  Dougie stood before the large downtrodden woman as she twirled in the tattered mauve chair in her office.   “What’s wrong, Mrs Du Randt?” Dougie asked sympathetically. Her pudgy face was twisted in a sad expression. She shook her head.  “I can’t find my brooch. You know the white butterfly…”  “With the gold trim,” Dougie interrupted, “Your guardian angel…”  She nodded. Edin appeared suddenly in the doorway behind him with his braille dictionary under his arm. He’d just finished his lessons.   “What is that cheeky grin for, Edin?” the matron asked.   He chuckled and shook his head. “I was expecting you to ask if I’d seen your brooch.”  Mrs Du Randt smiled meekly. She knew he couldn’t possibly have seen it.     For the boys, leaving the orphanage was like leaving an unhealthy relationship. You know that when you leave, you’ll be walking into sunlit fields of new hope. But before you make that choice, you sympathise for the person you’re leaving behind in the once shared abyss where the grey tides are still snapping at their heels like a wolf. In the end, it came down to what the boys valued more: themselves and their futures or their sentimentality for the hell hole they grew up in.   The matron had difficulty keeping her fountain of tears under control as she babbled her farewells to the boys. She ruffled Dougie’s neat russet undercut affectionately as he hugged her. A smile fluttered like a butterfly on his lips. It was a smile so magnificent that it left you in a heavenly euphoria, yet simultaneously so fragile that it could be crushed in your hands and lost in a matter of seconds. She placed her hand over her chest where her small porcelain brooch would have sat.   Willem chuckled, “Call us if you find that brooch of yours Ms Du Randt. I’m sure it will turn up somewhere.”  She hugged him. “I have no doubt my boy.” She wiped the tears from her eyes and smiled broadly.  After Willem and Simon had hauled the last the trunk into the boot of the Cortina, they left the small Karoo dorpie of their childhood and set off in pursuit of the sunset.   They were barely past Stilbaai when Midas and Willem had one of their routine clashing of horns. The ever-impatient Willem was sick to death of Midas’ scenic route. Honestly, Edin thought, they’re worse than Rottweilers in a ring. The coast road was poorly maintained, causing the Cortina to rattle infernally. The road was laced with exquisite jewels of coastal beauty and so enthralled Dougie that he ignored the rattling and spent most of his time in the boot, nose pressed to the back window, peering out at the picturesque landscape.   “Can we just get back on the N2!?” Willem yelled as he knocked his head against the window for about the fifth time.   “It’s not that bad, Willem! Get over yourself,” Midas retorted. Suddenly Willem lurched out of his seat and grabbed the steering wheel. The teal Cortina swerved violently into the empty oncoming lane.   “WILLEM!” Midas screeched. He writhed with the much stronger Willem until finally, he managed to thrust him off and regain control of the Cortina. “Jy’s blerrie mal!” he cried. Indignantly, he turned onto a side dirt road and put his foot to the floor. The sand and rocks skipped up at the teal metal. Midas braked suddenly just as the road reached the outskirts of a milkwood forest. The dust settled around the car and Midas glared out of the windscreen. Suddenly, everything was still.   Eventually, Midas clambered out the driver’s seat, slamming the door behind him. The others silently followed suit. Midas sprawled an old map out on the ticking bonnet.   “Tell me what you want to do Willem,” he said, gesturing to the map.  “I need to pee,” blurted Dougie who had decided to put considerable distance between himself and his two furious older ‘brothers’. Midas looked back over his shoulder at him.  “Go pee in the bushes over there,” he replied. “Take Edin as well,” he added before turning back to the map.   After they’d relieved themselves in the thicket on the edge of the milkwoods, Dougie and Edin strolled down the soft white sandy trail. Dougie tugged on Edin’s sleeve.  “Do you hear that?” Dougie whispered.  “What is it?” Edin asked, nodding.  Dougie smiled broadly and breathed in the cool summer air.  “The sea! It’s the sea, Edin!” He said ecstatically. Suddenly, Dougie turned heel and rushed back to the Cortina. Edin stumbled behind him, jogging as quickly as his could.  “Midas!” Dougie shouted. Both Willem and Midas looked up from the map.   “Can we camp here?” he asked with a broad innocent smile spread across his face.  Willem’s eyes widened. “Camp? It’s barely two! We need to carry on driving.”  Dougie’s face dropped. “It’s just… the sea is right there… and we’ve never seen the sea properly…” Midas seemed to consider this for a moment.   “Why not, Willem?” Midas said eventually, “It’ll give us time to agree on a route, and the boys can enjoy themselves for a while.” Willem sighed and admitted defeat.    The serpent’s tongue leapt from the wood and licked the star-speckled sky that evening. The boys huddled around the fire for warmth. They were wrapped in vintage floral blankets that had been given to them by the orphanage. The raucous harmony of Midas’ strong voice drifted amidst the treetops as he attempted some popular pop songs. Dougie joined in on an off-tune note sending them all into fits of laughter. He collapsed in the sand next to Edin, giggling. He slipped his hand into Edin’s and pulled the blanket over their shoulders… The quiet before the storm.  Suddenly, a pot clanged. A scuffle. A guttural yell and a desperate cry. Overwhelming and all at once. Edin jolted. Midas rose suddenly and stared in the direction of the noise.   “Ek gee nie ’n moer om!” Willem growled through his clenched jaw. He clutched Simon by his collar and thrust him towards the campfire. Simon crashed into the ground, biting the rocks and dirt. The fire’s light struck his ginger hair in such a way that it seemed as if he too was aflame. He crawled to his knees, his nose dripping with crimson blood, and he cowered in the shadow of Willem’s foreboding figure. Willem lunged for the frightened boy, but Midas wrenched him away, cursing and yelling. He shot one last glare full of daggers back at Simon, before following Midas away from the camp. The trees gossiped. “Hush. Hush,” they whispered.  When Midas return, he found Dougie staring into the fire, biting his fingernails.   “Come for a drive with me, Dougie. It’ll help clear your mind,” Midas suggested. Dougie smiled meekly. He was knackered, but he agreed anyway.     Midas often tried to keep Dougie and Edin out of his commonplace arguments with Willem. Edin realised that because he was blind, people seemed to think he was naïve and, on many occasions, deaf too. He quickly learnt to use this to his advantage, allowing him to slip into the background of arguments. He knew more than people thought.   In fact, he was the only one who knew the whole truth. With bare feet, Edin padded lightly across the wooden floor. He’d learnt which walls to follow if he wanted to be invisible, and which to follow if he wanted to be noticed. He leaned against the wall outside Midas and Willem’s room and listen to the low growling argument between them. Even when he was irritated, Midas’ tone was never as harsh as that of Willem’s.   “You can’t take him to a place where it is easier for him to access tik,” Midas commanded.  “He’ll keep taking it, whether he comes with us or not,” Willem’s gruff voice retorted. “We can at least keep an eye on him in Cape Town.”  Midas was silent for a moment. “We’ll be working! If anything, we’ll have even less contact with him!” Willem seemed to reject this argument with a snort.  “There are people in Cape Town who can help him,”  Midas heaved. His metal bed frame creaked as he lay down and rolled over to stare at the wall.   “I think you’re making a mistake, Willem,” he muttered eventually. Willem let out a disgruntled sniff as he stood up and placed something into the trunk lying at the foot of his bed.  “You don’t get it…” he grunted, “Simon is like a younger brother to me.” Midas suddenly jerked over and glared at Willem, his dark shaggy hair hung over his eyes…    ֍ ֍ ֍    The retro neon lights of the bar in Jongensfontein gave the whole place a movie feel to it. Midas wrapped his arm around Dougie’s shoulder as they strolled back to the Cortina. Dougie had always been Midas’ treasure, and at that moment he looked every bit the picture. He was clothed in an oversized women’s trench coat.   Midas smiled as he recollected how Dougie – only ten at the time – had claimed it the moment it arrived at the orphanage in a black dustbin sack from the pastor’s wife. Midas ruffled his hair. Dougie giggled, but it slowly faded, and a frown found its way onto his lips.  “Why were Willem and Simon fighting?” Dougie asked eventually. Midas merely sighed.  “It’s nothing that should bother you.” He smiled apathetically and squeezed Dougie’s arm to show him that it was alright. He wanted to protect Dougie from the harshness of their reality. Dougie leaned his head against the soft leather of the passenger seat headrest. He cast his gaze out the dew glazed window. The road at night was enigmatic. Every now and then the lights of a solitary house would flicker like a fallen star nestled in the treetops. Dougie let himself drift into dreamland despite Midas blasting some exotic pop song from the Cortina’s cassette player.   Midas leaned back and pulled a rugged horse blanket off the back seats. Cautiously, so as not to wake him, he lay it over Dougie. Then… a blinding glare in the windscreen. Glass exploded into thousands of razor crystals…      The wind carried Midas’ sobs to Edin’s ears as he hunched over his breakfast of baked beans in a mint coloured metal cup. Neither Willem nor Simon had heard him yet. Something was wrong… Then suddenly it hit him. Dougie was nowhere to be seen… and Midas was crying. To Edin, logically, it only meant one thing. Edin let the battered cup clatter onto the black rocks at his feet.   Something had happened to Dougie. The world shattered around him, melting into a new abyss behind him. He didn’t care anymore. He didn’t care if the acacias ripped his skin or if jagged rocks stood up to whack his legs. The writhing shrubbery caught Edin’s feet, and he collided with the ashy sand of the pathway. The dank forest air crept into his lungs, wafting up and strangling the hazy thoughts in his mind. He found himself assuming a foetal position, his face pressed into the cold ground to soothe the burns of feral thoughts. He clawed at the sand beneath his hand – slowly, intently, caressing its impermanent form.  “Edin!” a dogged yell resounded. It was so out of place in the forest that it seemed to silence the whispering trees. The lonely hum of a dove was all that dared to challenge the voice. Edin scrambled to his feet and stumbled aimlessly onwards. A firm, rough hand grabbed at him. Its fingers dug into his shoulder and thrust him towards their owner.   “Edin,” Willem growled in his ear. Edin hung his head and violently shrugged him off.   “What happened, Edin?” he asked. His face contorted, and there was something wild in his eyes. Edin bit his chapped lips and cast his ‘gaze’ straight at what he assumed was Willem’s unknown face.   “Tell me, Edin.” Edin knew he couldn’t hide it. Willem would find out one way or another.  Willem let go of Edin’s collar and stormed back to the camp where Midas stood with his head hung.   “You bastard!” Willem spat. Willem grabbed him by the collar. His fist connected with Midas’ face. Midas just stared at him – the sparkle had long left his eyes. They were as a dead as a starless night. Midas took every one of Willem’s blows. Simon intervened and wrestled Willem off him. He wasn’t fighting – he didn’t want to. Not anymore. He was a shell, bitterly cold and empty.   “I didn’t mean for it to happen!” Midas shot back.  Willem had no words left – only wrathful snarls and hoarse inhumane howls.  He glared at the wrecked Cortina.   “Where is he?!” Willem snapped. Its pastel teal paint abraded. Headlights smashed. He spun and faced him. The memory of the accident raged like hellfire in Midas’ mind.  “He’s dead…” His fingers traced the cuts on his face.  “You killed him!” Willem raised his fist again… the impact…    Midas’ head hit the steering wheel. The contorted arms of trees pierced the windscreen as the Cortina was thrown off the road. Time and space warped – everything moved in slow motion. Dougie was thrust through the windscreen. Deep scarlet blood oozed from his forehead. Midas staggered out of the car, barely able to stand. Glass. Dougie. Car. Help. Blood. Trees. Dougie. Midas’ mind was everywhere and nowhere at once. He barely recognised his screams. His ears pulsated. He pulled Dougie from the wreckage. He cradled the boy’s limp, blood-soaked body. “Dougie!!” he wept, hugging him. He backed away from the body.   He stared at his shaking hands, drenched in blood. Was it his own or Dougie’s? He didn’t know. He didn’t care. He was in no state to drive, yet intoxicated by shock, and before he realised what he was doing, he reversed the ruined Cortina from the wreckage. He knew he couldn’t leave Dougie to die in the forest – and he didn’t want to – but he had to get away from the carnage…    Willem’s teeth were clenched. “You left him there!” He circled Midas like a predator corralling its prey.   “Do you think I wanted to leave him there?!”  “You still did it!”   “Your kind is so typical,” he hissed in Midas’ ear. “Always at fault but never taking the blame!”  “None of this would have happened if we had stayed! But no! You insisted! You convinced us all that it would mean a better life for us. Lies! You just wanted to run away from your mistakes!”  Suddenly Willem transformed from a snarling beast into a startled deer. He bit his lip. “Oh really,” he said defensively, “At least I didn’t kill Dougie!”  Midas grabbed his shirt. “No, you just impregnated Bianca and then thought I wouldn’t find out!”  “It’s hardly my fault that she preferred me to the bastard child of a Chinaman,” he remarked cruelly. Edin knew this day would come. It was a day that had long been brewing, like an afternoon thunderstorm, gathering its intensity.   “You just can’t keep your hands to yourself!” Midas growled. “You think you have the god-given right to exploit what you want without a second thought!” he yelled.  “Well, I didn’t see you stay to support your fiancée.”  “Why would I support a woman who betrayed me? Why would I support your bastard child? You destroyed everything –”  He stopped mid-sentence for Edin, who had been standing silently next to Midas the whole time, turned and walked away from their duel. They both watched as he placed a considerable distance between them and sat down, cross-legged on the grass ‘looking’ out over the ocean.   “Why don’t you go after him? Maybe you can kill him too, then I only have you to get rid of.” Willem’s comment made Midas double back… but he stopped, his fist only a breath away from Willem’s pale face. He let go of him.  Willem slicked back his jet-black hair and regained his composure.   “Simon and I are carrying on to Cape Town,” he said as if nothing had happened.   “Maybe that’s for the best,” Midas snarled.   “I doubt Edin will come.”  “Why would he? He’s never been anything in your eyes,” Midas said. “What did you call him the other day? A parasite…”   Willem cast his gaze away from Midas. He hated it when Midas called him out for things he considered trivial.  Without another word, Willem and his ‘lapdog’, Simon, trudged towards the forest path that lead back to the road. Simon cast one last longing gaze back at the teal Cortina – even its damaged state, it was a treasure…  Silence…  Midas had long forgotten what it sounded like. Waves crashing on the rocks. Milkwood leaves rustling in the breeze. Midas sat down beside Edin on the grass and stared at the tumbling sea. But it wasn’t long before the memory of Dougie choked him. Edin placed his arm around Midas, rubbing the back of his neck, reassuring him. Midas no longer felt like the protector of the group. He was crushed by the weight of reality.   “I’m sorry, Edin,” he wept. “I didn’t mean for everything to fall apart.”  “Things fell apart long ago,” Edin said eventually. The thunderstorm has passed. Its rains had washed clean the lies that stood between the brothers. Midas looked up at him. For as long as Midas had known him, the boy had looked as if he was constantly burdened by sorrow.   “What do you mean?”  “You tried to protect me and Dougie from pain…from the fights. But most of the time you forgot about me...” Edin closed his eyes. “You thought that because I couldn’t see what was going on, I was naïve.”  “You mean, you knew all the things I tried to protect you from?”  Edin nodded.   “I knew even before you did, that Bianca was having an affair with Willem. I also knew before all of you that Simon was doing tik. Because I listened…The world thought me invisible, but it only meant people would say things around me that they wouldn’t say to others. Sometimes I think you were the blindest of us all. Always hoping things weren’t as bad as they seemed.” Midas hung his head.   “Give me your hand,” Edin said. Midas placed his open palm in Edin’s hand. He placed something small and cold into it. It took a moment for Midas register what it was.   “Mrs du Randt’s brooch?” he said suddenly, barely believing what he was holding. The small, blanched porcelain butterfly with dainty gold trimmings and gold pin had been their matron’s ‘guardian angel’.  “Dougie gave it to me. He told me that we needed a guardian angel more than Mrs du Randt.”  “Dougie spent hours helping her find it, knowing full well that he took it…” Midas said slowly.  “Can you blame him?”  He smiled. “Of course not…Dougie…Dougie was our angel…”  At the mention of Dougie, Midas’ smile faded.   “You know Dougie doesn’t blame you,” Edin said.  “It’s my fault he’s gone…” Midas fixed his gaze at the pale cerulean sky.   “Dougie wouldn’t want you to blame yourself. He would say it had to happen.”  Midas rubbed the brooch. “Dougie was like that wasn’t he…”  The wind quietened from a cry to a whisper in their ears. The waves were the same colour as the Cortina – pristine and teal. Dougie’s laughter danced in the clouds, and he seemed to call their names. Midaaaas! Edin! Edin passed his hand over his pocket where a crumpled piece of paper was stowed. On it was the beginning of the poem he’d thought up. It was written in Dougie’s spidery handwriting. He knew now why he’d struggled with it. He had to stop trying to add colour; for even those who could see, would see no colour in his story. All the words in his monochrome mind fell into place. Edin began to believe that maybe Dougie was indeed an angel – one sent to free them from themselves. Like the waves below him, the poem began to roll off his tongue, and it found its place in the heavens with Dougie’s spirit.    To drive until we reach the sunset.  You believe brighter days wait there.    Dancing above rolling waves  with fragile wings.  There for a moment   and lost in a second.    That which bound us  Quickly broke us.  On Sunset road  where wings we fail to see  Will surely guide us.  