Sobolo    As I sit down on the bench next to my classmate Abena, she makes a comment that I can hardly hear over the shouts of squash players warming up, and highlife music blaring from school speakers. “I said I can’t believe there are no girls playing for Blue. It’s first game too,” she repeats.  “No, these things are announced to us pretty last-minute, so it makes sense my girls wouldn’t want to,” I reply. I am part of Blue, one of the four sports teams into which my school has divided the entire student body. Here, at the first monthly ‘inter-color’ competition, it smells like sweat and sobolo, the dark mineral blend everyone now drinks. Lifting my plastic cup, I take a sip of the sour mixture and suppress an involuntary grimace.  “You like this version?” Abena asks, studying my face. “It’s red hibiscus.”  “Of course,” I lie.  “Kuukua said she went on a sobolo-and-leaves cleanse and lost two pounds.”  “Yeah? She looks great,” I answer, surveying the room to avoid eye contact.  I spot an unfamiliar girl wearing a bold skirt at the front of the viewing room. Gold, cerulean, orange, and emerald, the colors of kente cloth sweep past her feet as she sits down. She is awkwardly positioned on the bench, half on her side and half facing forward, as if she does not know whether to turn to the group of people next to her. Her short afro is pulled back by a white band that matches the ring on her thumb, moving back and forth as it rubs against her left hand.  Then, I see her face. A poorly constructed mask, her face is a familiar expression of longing and anxiety. Anger bubbles up inside me as I study her taut smile and worried eyes; I hate her face. Time confronts me with an image of my past, and it is me on that bench. One year younger, I am an amateur actress whose lines are always wrong or delivered incorrectly. In bulky grey sandals I had bought simply because every female student owned a pair, I had tried unsuccessfully to mask my discomfort. Despite spending a full semester at this school, I had yet to find my own set of people, or at least a group within which I could feign comfort. Seated on the edge of my chair, waiting for something that would not happen, I was painfully aware of how incongruous I looked. In my head, I had carefully recounted every interaction, assessed every piece of clothing, analyzed every unspoken rule that I had so deliberately followed.   The girl’s voice interrupts my thoughts. “Hey! Hey John! How are you? Are you playing for Red?”  John, a dark-skinned senior, is only half paying attention as he scans the viewing room. With the music off for the squash players to huddle with their coaches, I can make out his curt answer: “Yeah.”  She laughs a short, breathy laugh. “Right, of course, I hope you have enough energy after having to walk all the way down here to the sports complex. I know I wouldn’t with this heat, right?”    Her voice is too high, like a bird chirping for a mate. I want to tell her to lie better and that she does not have to pretend, all at once. I want to say she is enough, everything I wish someone had said to me as I had sat there, unable to stand the constricting pain in my chest. It’s not my place to interfere, I remind myself— and yet it is exactly my place. I imagine running up and hugging her, declaring even if no one else does, I love her. I don’t even know her, another part of me protests as I choke down frustration.  John offers her a civil smile but swiftly walks away, her goodbye rendered inaudible by over-enthusiastic spectators applauding the first serve. She smiles emptily to herself, at no one and at nothing, and at last, I get up. I am aware that I have little to offer, but unable to watch her fade, as I have, into the one acceptable hue of our monotone society. I muster the courage to step in her direction; I have to—  “Hey! Where are you going? The game just started,” Abena calls. The present returns with all its logic, and indeed, it is no longer me sitting on that bench. So I turn away from the girl in the kente skirt and pick up my sobolo.  