Again     I remember a park my sister and I used to play in when we were younger. It was only a few blocks away from school, and we’d often stop there on our way home. The grass was always an unnaturally vivid green, even when it had not rained in months. The swing set, as stubborn and defiant as it was, had become worn over the years, but there was always one swing on the far right of the park that still worked. Its rubber seat had yet to be broken, and its chains had not been tainted with the orange colour of rust just yet. The swing had always been mine. Whenever we stopped at the park, I would always run to reach it before my sister. I remember I tripped once and scratched my leg open, and she had reached the swing before me. Everyone thought I was crying because I was injured.   I’m the youngest in my family, even if only by a year. I thought this gave me some sort of power, some way to get everything I wanted. I was selfish. I am selfish. As I sat on the swing, laughing with my mother and father as I soared into the sky, I barely noticed my sister had lost her smile. I barely cared, and that selfish part of me looked away as a tear rolled down her face. If I could take back anything I ever did, it would be that. I would give her the opportunity to be able to do something, be someone.   “Thaliya!”   I jolt upright in my seat. I’m sitting in Geography class. Everyone looks at me expectantly, partially hidden pity hovering in their eyes. I look up to see my Geography teacher, with that same look plastered on her face. I don’t miss the hint of annoyance that springs across her face either. She sighs.   “Liya, next time, please pay attention in my class,” she says. I nod quickly, feeling a sudden, sharp pang of guilt. If it was anyone else, they wouldn’t have gotten off so lightly. The bell rings, the ear-piercing sound making my head spin. I fling my bag over my shoulder and scurry out of class.   My mother was always very overprotective. To a point of frustration. She wouldn’t let me go anywhere alone. She always fussed over everything, especially my hair, which was always messily falling in my face. She absolutely refused to let me walk home from school, regardless of us living a mere five minutes away. However, recently she would make me wait hours after school, only for her to phone and say she wouldn’t be able to pick me up. Today is one of those days. After sitting on one of the wooden benches outside of the school building for over an hour, I realise my mother probably forgot to pick me up. I stand up, ready to leave, and as I do, everyone turns to watch me, making me feel self-conscious. I know what they’re thinking, what thoughts are bouncing through their heads. Will she ever get better? She doesn’t have friends anymore. Her grades have dropped. She no doubt lost her sport scholarship. I know that’s what they’re all thinking. That’s what I’m thinking too.   My shoes crunch against gravel as I make my way home. The sun is scorching hot and I can feel sweat rolling down my olive-toned skin. My curly, shoulder-length brown hair is tied up in a high ponytail, but a few strands have already come loose and now obscure my vision. I wouldn’t mind walking home, if it wasn’t for the park I’d have to pass on my way there.   The previously animated park is now lifeless, the grass no longer green, and the trees no longer full of the multicoloured birds that would chirp happily. I walk up to my swing and sit down on the hot rubber. I swing up into the sky, and my stomach doesn’t even turn because of my distance from the ground. I feel nothing. I don’t want to go home and face my mother. She gets paler by the day, and her dark rings are almost the same colour as her pitch-black hair. I decide to remain on the swing. My mother won’t even realise I’m not home. She doesn’t even pay much attention when I am home, not anymore.   I look up from my spot on the swing and see someone in the distance. A girl with wavy brown hair that, despite the colour, looks just like my mother’s. She reminds me of my sister. She’s tall with lengthy chestnut coloured hair, just like her. As she walks closer, I see her face too is covered in freckles. I would’ve brushed it off as coincidence if it wasn’t for her piercing, emerald coloured eyes.   I stand up and get ready to begin my journey home when I notice the figure is walking towards me. I pick up my pace ignoring the shadow creeping behind me. I can feel my heart rate increasing. It can’t be.   “Thaliya!” the figure calls.   I’m breathing harder. It feels as if everything around me is caving in.   “Liya… it’s me, Addie.”   I turn around slowly and look into her green eyes, identical to mine. Addie. My sister. Except for the broken look in her eyes, it looks just like her. But that’s not possible. Because Addie died a year ago. The last thing I see is a tear roll down her cheek and the ghost of a smile playing on her face before I hit the ground and the world goes black.   When I wake up, I’m sure I’m lying in a hospital bed, but I don’t seem to recall why. I can smell disinfectants and blood. The room I’m in is almost completely empty except for my mother sitting on the edge of my bed. The worried look on her face disappears, replaced by an eerie look of happiness.   “Don’t worry. You just had a panic attack. You’re going to be okay,” my mother says and moves over to give me a hug.   “I saw her. I saw Addie,” I cry. A worried look passes over my mother’s face, but it disappears almost as quickly as it came, her face returning to its usual look of emptiness.   “Hallucinations are common when having gone through trauma,” she says matter-of-factly, but it seems as if she’s trying to convince herself more than me.   I get checked out of the hospital later that day. All I think about is the girl who I saw. She looked older and skinnier, but it was undeniably Addie. Every time I bring it up with my mother, she brushes it off and changes the topic. The most common topic change is to my father.   My father works in London and has come to visit us in Cape Town about four times since he left. We aren’t very close, and he tries to make up for it by buying me whatever I want when he comes to visit. He left shortly after Addie’s death. He says he was going to leave before that, but I know that’s not true. I overheard him telling my mom that he can’t keep lying to me.   The next few days pass as normal, but I’m still haunted by the sight of my sister after last seeing her days ago. Even as a hallucination, she looked wrong, sick. She lost so much weight, and her face lost all its colour. She looked at me without really seeing me. I shiver. I hate thinking about it, but what if she was really there? It was her voice, even if it sounded damaged and hoarse. It was her, even if she didn’t look the same. But that didn’t mean it was real, I remind myself. Your mind can play tricks on you sometimes.   While sitting on a bench outside school, I hear footsteps and look up to see a girl approaching me. She has messy blond hair, and her tie looks too tight around her throat. She must have noticed me staring and began to feel uncomfortable because she lifts her hands up to loosen it. She grins at me.   “Hello, Thaliya,” she says, the beautiful fake smile still plastered on her face.   “Amelia,” I reply. She swallows hard and I look at her with my eyebrows raised. I know there is nothing friendly in my expression.   “I miss her too. I know she was your sister, but she was my best friend.” I can see the sorrow in Amelia’s hazel eyes directed at me. As if she didn’t lose a best friend herself.   “Well, you seem to be doing perfectly fine without her.” I make sure to glance at her group of friends standing behind her, laughing as if nothing is wrong. I can see in her entire face that she is insulted, but I don’t care. She is going on like everything is normal when it’s not. When it won’t ever be the same again.   “I know we all handle grief differently, but losing someone doesn’t mean cutting out everyone else you love,” she sighs. “Listen, Liya, I didn’t come to argue with you. I…” she lowers her voice, her tone completely solemn, and leans in. “I think… I think I saw her… I was walking to school and she waved at me.” I look up and see her eyes shining. “I know she committed suicide, but… did you ever find her body?”   “Amelia, the police have been investigating this for months–”   “I know, I know. I’m losing my mind. I thought I was getting better. I thought I was doing fine without her.” She takes a deep, unsteady breath. “I’ll see you around, okay.”   I watch her walk away. She’s right. When I lost Addie, I lost everything along with her. I thought I lost my mind too, but Amelia says she saw her as well. Now that I think about it, the police never did find her body. No, what am I saying? What I saw a few days ago was nothing. I just saw someone who looked like Addie and started panicking.   Amelia is just messing with me. She thinks this is a joke, I’m a joke. She wants to make me feel even more insane than I probably already am. I clench my teeth, throw my bag on my back and walk away humiliated.   I arrive at my house and find the front door open, with hushed voices floating through it. I step inside cautiously but drop my bag on the floor as soon as I see my dad and rush over to embrace him in a hug. He is much taller than I am, even though I’m already sixteen.   “Tomorrow, I’m taking you to the carnival,” is all he says.   The following day, after about a half an hour drive, we arrive at the carnival. It is crowded, and my ears fill with the sounds of people talking and children shouting excitedly. I inhale the scent of pizza and candyfloss, as I gape in awe at all the different food stalls and rides. But what catches my eye is the Ferris wheel, as high as a skyscraper, towering over us. For a second, I forget about my sister and impatiently pull my father toward the queue.    Once we paid for our tickets, we make our way to one of the metallic, red-coloured seats and slip in. There was still a fair amount of space, as the seat was made for three. Patiently, we wait for everyone else to board the ride. After a few minutes, we hear someone announce that the ride is about to begin. I hold in my breath, awaiting our ascent.   I look at everyone else still waiting for their opportunity to go on the ride. There is a little girl with ocean blue eyes who waves at me. I smile and wave back. My eyes move further down the line, watching all the children talk to their friends and family excitedly.   Suddenly, I feel the hairs on the back of my neck raise. I can see someone observing me out of the corner of my eye. I let out a shaking breath as I turn ninety degrees to face her. No! It can’t be. My hands start shaking and it feels like all the air is sucked out of my lungs. My seat starts making squeaking sounds and begins moving, even as I’m unlatching the rail that keeps me inside. I’m less than a meter from the ground, but I still feel the impact of the jump as I land on the patchy grass.   Behind me my father is screaming “Stop”, but I have no idea if it is directed at me or the person controlling the Ferris Wheel, so I continue running. My heels dig into the dirt as I make my way over to the queue and stand directly in front of my so-called hallucination. Behind me, the ride has stopped moving and my father is darting towards me, almost falling over his feet a few times. I turn to face him, tears threatening to spill from my eyes.   “Explain this!” I demand, my voice laced with rage. “Explain how my dead sister is standing in front of me, very much alive!”   The crowd begins to stir, clearly uncomfortable with my sudden outburst. The commotion must have drawn my mother’s attention, because she marches over to us, looking as confused as ever. Until she sees Addie. She opens her mouth, ready to speak, but then closes it again and looks at me sadly, as if I’m the only person in the entire world who has no idea what is going on.   “You lied to me! You said I was hallucinating; you made me believe I was losing my mind, just as I had supposedly lost my sister. But clearly not, because here she is!” I point to Addie, who looks on the verge of tears herself.   She says, “I think I can explain.”   I feel like a ghost as I walk through the crowds of people at the carnival with my older sister Addie next to me. She doesn’t talk; not as we walk past candy stalls, or carnival games, or the array of luscious foods that make my stomach grumble. We finally stop at an old bench away from everyone else, including our parents who were too astounded to speak or stop us from leaving.   Addie sits down on the bench, but gazes out into the distance, where to, I don’t know. After a few silent moments pass, she turns to face me. The empty look in her eyes almost dissolves as she throws herself onto me and starts weeping.   “I missed you. Every day that I was in that… place,” she manages to say. She pulls away from me. “What you saw that day was real. I did write that note, but I wasn’t going to use it then. Mom… she saw it shoved in one of my notebooks and had me sent to this mental hospital.” Her voice cracks on the last few words, and I don’t know how to comfort her.   “It was terrible there. I knew nobody, and I had to stay in a small room with no privacy. I couldn’t take it anymore. The mental hospital was making me crazy. I knew I had to get out. We – we started a fire, and they escorted us all out of the gates. I managed to slip away with a friend from the hospital. We were staying with her cousin.” She looks at me, but her eyes never completely meet mine. All those times I tried to be better than her, refusing to let her get any attention, weigh heavy on my shoulders.   “Adalyn, I’m so sorry you had to go through that. I had no idea. Every day I wished that you’d come back, that everything had just been a dream. I know I am a terrible sister. I missed you so much.” I pull her into a tight embrace. I will never forgive myself for how horrible of a sister I was.   Addie and I spend the rest of the day together at the carnival, catching up on the year we missed of each other’s lives. We spoke about anything and everything until the sun peeked out over the horizon. We had gone on all the rides except the Ferris wheel, which we quietly slipped onto, before going home. Sitting in the seat as it ascended was the most beautiful thing. Not because the setting sun caused the sky to look like candyfloss of all different colours, but because I was with my sister again.   By the time we left the carnival, the sun had completely set. The stars shone overhead, and along with the moon, they provided most of the light as we walked down the street. I was not on speaking terms with my parents, but they didn’t really speak anyway. During our time spent together, Addie and I giggled uncontrollably like the good old days. She seems happy. Mom and dad seemed to have decided not to send her back. Even if they tried, I wouldn’t have let them.    I’d always thought my parents were different because of Addie’s death, but now I know it must’ve been the guilt. The guilt of sending her to a mental hospital. The guilt of not telling me. The guilt of faking her death.   “Were you ever going to tell me?” I ask as we walk, “I mean, Addie wasn’t going to stay in that hospital forever. What were you going to tell everyone when she was released? That she rose from the dead?” I try to calm myself. It is my mother who replies.   “She… we were going to have her live with your father in London. We thought it was best if you two didn’t live together, if you didn’t know your sister was alive. She was going to get released in a few months,” she chokes out.   A fog begins to settle over the streets, and combined with the darkness, creates an unnerving gloom. I can hear cars honking in the distance, and a light drizzle begins to fall from the sky.   “Why? How could you possibly do that? How would you be able to live with yourself after doing that?” I ask, shaking with anger. Surprisingly, my sister looks up, the corners of her mouth turned up to form a tiny smile.   “It doesn’t matter. I’m here now and I can stay here, with you. Let’s just forget about it,” she says. Of course she says that. She has always been too understanding.   “No, this is unforgivable! How dare–” I begin.   “Don’t speak to your mother like that! You have no idea how hard it was for us! We made this decision to benefit the both of you. Now, let’s get to the car before we all get soaked. We can continue this discussion at home,” My father yells. With a sigh, Addie walks ahead of us, not even bothering to argue. I, however, do not mind doing it for her.   “Benefit us? Well, did it benefit Addie?” I ask. We continue pointlessly yelling at each other as we walk toward the car. Most of the parking was taken when we’d arrived, so we parked about a block away. Over all of the arguing we didn’t hear as a car flew down the road. Just as Addie was crossing it.   “No! Addie!” I screech, the sound echoing in my ears.   I saw it before it happened. But not in time to warn her. All I could get out was a high-pitched shriek, as I watched the car hit her.   I sink to my knees, not caring that they’d get sodden from the rain gathering on the pavement. The rain runs down my face, racing my very own tears. I begin to shiver, but eventually, I can’t even feel the cold anymore.   I didn’t need to run to her to know how bad it was. The car was driving well past the speed limit, and the horrifying moment of impact flashed before my eyes. I didn’t need to wait for the ambulance to arrive to know if she would be okay. I could see it just by looking at her lifeless body, lying in the middle of the road. I didn’t need to wait for her to be examined by the doctors to know her fate. I already knew she was gone. I already knew I’d lost my sister… again.   