The Eyes Tell a Story    It was a magnificent morning, the sun was shining and the birds were singing songs of hope, but sadly for me, there was no hope. I stood next to my father’s death bed at the hospital and listened to his last words as he said, “Son, look into my hungry eyes, not even one blink, not a single demise, there is no despair hidden behind my pride, and I am a book that you can read by looking at me straight in the eyes.”   After a moment of silence, I then responded by saying, “Father, I have looked into your eyes, and what I saw should never be disguised because it misguides those whose hearts are filled with hope for the future.”   My father knew very well that he had reached the end of the road, and there is nothing he could do now besides waiting for the angel of death to come and claim his soul. I stood there looking at his pale face, wondering how could he leave us when he was healthy and come back as an invalid. As a child, I never knew my father and my mother hardly spoke about him, but she once told me that I had eyes like his. She told me that my father left her a long time ago and told her that he is going to look for greener pastures, but he never came back. I was three years old when he left, and my mother was four months pregnant with my little sister.   My mother was a strong woman (still is), and she worked with the scraps she was given in order to provide for me and my sister. The hard times polished my sister as I taught her to never depend on men and to trust no soul except the one she owns. I had so many questions that I wanted to ask my father, but time was of the essence, and I remembered what my mother used to say about time. She used to say, “By the token of time through the ages verily man is in loss, except those who have faith and engage in the mutual teachings of truth, patience and consistency.”   Back then, I was too young to understand what she meant, but now everything is becoming vivid to me. My father wasted his youth chasing a mirage and never paid attention to what was in front of him. I used to listen to my mother cry at night. All she ever prayed for was for her only son not to become like his father. Even though she felt deserted and broken, she still had love for my father. She used to say to me, “Son, the reason we fall is to rise”, and I knew then that I had to find my own way because this world is cruel and heartless. I felt as if I was denied my childhood, I was constantly looking after my mother and sister up to the point where I had no friends, and the only thing I knew was to survive.   The following verse was the only thing that got me through the day: “By the glorious morning light and by the night when it is still, thy Guardian Lord has not forsaken you nor is he displeased and verily the hereafter will be better for you than the present and he shall soon reward for which you shall be pleased. Did he not find you an orphan and gave you shelter and care? Did he not find you wondering and gave you guidance? Did he not find you in need and made you independent? Therefore do not treat the orphan with harshness nor repulse the petitioner. But the bounty of your Lord, read and proclaim.”   These words filled my spirit with wonder and awe, and I believed that there was a reason behind my suffering. My father and most people chose to repulse the petitioner, which is why they have many regrets about what could have been. I spent much of my childhood wondering about what I did to deserve this life.   When the chance came to ask my father, I just stood there with many things to say but no words to say it. I asked my father why did he leave us, but what I got was silence and more silence. I asked a second time with tears falling down my face and he never responded. I felt as if he had no words to explain himself, so I decided to ask him the name of his daughter. He did not respond, but he was trying to move his lips until the machines started making noises.   Many doctors came in and told me to evacuate the room, but I refused because I longed so many years for the chance to meet my father. He held my hand tightly, and said in a shallow voice, “Only if you knew”, and he closed his eyes for the last time. I looked into his lifeless face and said to him, “This isn’t goodbye, even as I watch you die. I swear I won’t cry, not even one tear will be shed from my eyes.” The doctor standing next to me looked at me with eyes filled with wonder. He wondered how I could not cry when I had just lost my father; he did not know that my anger could not let me feel for a stranger.   