Yenz’okuhle     Overview  After his father’s death, a young boy named Yenz’okuhle (Yenzi) from KwaZulu-Natal comes to Pretoria to live with his loving and caring mother. He gets introduced to the ghetto life and his love for money makes it difficult for him to find a way out of a gambling addiction.     Act 1 Scene 1  The streets of Pretoria.  Yenzi and his friend Rhulani are on their way home. On the way, they see Yenzi’s crush Dipalesa.    Rhulani: Eh, dude, look, look!  Yenzi: Shhh, I know, I saw her.  Rhulani: Go get her, my dawg!  Yenzi: Nah, bro, what am I even going to say when I get there?  Rhulani: Come on! You're asking me?  Yenzi: Who said I should go for her?  Rhulani: But whose crush is she?  Yenzi: Let's just drop it.  Rhulani: [Laughs] Dude, don't tell me you’re scared.  Yenzi: No, bro, I’m not scared. Besides, she's not even my type.  Rhulani: If you say so, my man.  Yenzi: [Unsure] Yeah…  Act 1 Scene 2  Yenzi and Rhulani pass boys playing dice.    Yenzi: Eish, bro, you know, I'm starting to regret it.  Rhulani: Regret what?  Yenzi: Palesa…  Rhulani: You’re such a fool, man.  Yenzi: Why do you say that?    CJ calls them.    CJ: Hey, guys…  Rhulani: [Talking softly to Yenzi] What does he want?  Yenzi: You always have a problem with everyone.    CJ runs towards them.    CJ: Yo, what's up, guys?  Rhulani and Yenzi: What's up, what's up?  CJ: Guys, can you hook a brother up with R10?  Rhulani: Eish, sorry, man, I got nothing on me.  CJ: Ahh, Zulu boy, stop playing around.  Yenzi: Ah, dude, I’ve got some money, but I don’t have smaller change.    CJ: No worries, it’s cool, I’m sure Knoxman has some change.    CJ calls Knoxman.    CJ: Hey, Knoxman, can I get some change over here?  Knoxman: How much change you want my bro?  CJ: [Talking to Yenzi] How much do you have?  Yenzi: R200.  CJ: [Talking to Knoxman] Yeah, two hundred, man.  Knoxman: We will get the change around here somewhere.  CJ: Yeah, Zulu boy, let’s go get your change. We’ll find someone with it.  Yenzi: Let’s go, Rex.  Rhulani: Nah, man, I’m not going. You go. I don’t wana get involved.  CJ: Ah, Rhulani, don’t be like that, man. We go to the same school, dude. One day we’ll need each other, and I’ll have your back.  Yenzi: Yeah, bro, besides, we’re not staying long. As soon as I get my change, we’re out.  CJ: Leave him, Yenzi, he doesn’t wana come.  Yenzi: Nah, bro, I’m going with Rex. I can never leave him alone. Come on, Rex, please.  Rhulani: Okay, let’s go.    Act 1 Scene 3    Lethabo: Guys, I’ve got ten on it.    Lethabo’s opponent makes a krab (mistake).    Lethabo: Haha, looks like luck’s on my side today! Thanks, Zulu boy.    As Yenzi plays he loses.    Yenzi: Eh, CJ, bro, just give my money so that I can leave.  CJ: Don’t worry, Zulu boy. Let me just wrap this up, then I’ll give you your cut.  Rhulani: Nah, man, I’ll catch you later.  Yenzi: Ah, CJ, dude, you see, I really need to leave. Hey, Rex, don’t leave me behind.  Rhulani: I’ll walk slowly.  CJ keeps on playing and Rhulani leaves.    Yenzi: Ah dude, you see Rex has left now.  CJ: Relax dawg. This is a sign that today is your lucky day. Take this. [He gives Yenzi dice.]  Yenzi: What do I do with these dice?  CJ: Roll them, Zulu boy, I’ll show you how it’s done.  Yenzi: I don’t know how to play dice, man, and besides, I didn’t come here for that. Give me my money so I can leave.  CJ: Just roll for me, man, and I’ll get you your change so you can go.    Yenzi throws the dice and hits a seven.    Gang: Ah, the boy is winning.  CJ: Hit them again, Zulu, one more roll, you double that. Then you can leave.     Yenzi hits a seven again.    CJ: R20 bet, R20 bet.    Someone bets R20.    CJ: R20 bet, one man oil.    Two hours later… They are still playing dice and Yenzi is winning.    CJ: Ah Knoxman, no one is bigger than the game.  Knoxman: Yeah, bro, let’s up the stakes. Please hook me up with 50 bucks.    Everyone is asking for money from Yenzi and CJ. Dipalesa passes by.    CJ: [Teasing Dipalesa] Hey, guys, look at that!    The gang cheers and whistles.    Knoxman: Hey, sweet thing, want me to buy you something?  Dipalesa: Do I look desperate to you?  Gang: Ohhhhh!    Yenzi smiles.    Knoxman: [Embarrassed and angry] Hey, you don’t know me! I could bet your whole family’s fortune right now!  Dipalesa: [Smiles] Really? With your little dice money? Disgusting! I may not have money, but I am not desperate. Some people have no class, and some of you shouldn’t even be playing dice.    Yenzi shows guilt.    Knoxman: Hey, you bitch, talk trash again and I’ll…  Dipalesa: You’ll do what???    Knoxman goes to her and tries to slap her but Yenzi holds his hand.    Knoxman: Zulu boy, what are you doing? Let me deal properly with this girl.  Yenzi: Dude, why do you have to hit a girl? Let her go.  Knoxman: Don’t tell me rubbish, son. Just because you winning at gambling, now you think you are the world’s smartest kid? It’s bros before hoes, man. Don’t get it twisted, son.   Yenzi: What you going to do, man?    CJ comes running trying to prevent the fight.    CJ: NO MAN, Yenzi, dude, just take your money and leave, my guy!  Yenzi: Hold on a minute, CJ. I said, what do you think you’re gonna do about it, dude?  Knoxman: [Laughing] Eh, CJ, take your little dog and leave. I’m the top dawg here. My teeth could tear through anyone. I’m a 26.  Gang: AFFIRMATIVE!  Knoxman: Back off, little guy, you’ll get hurt.  Yenzi: Don’t you dare call me a dog. I’m not like you, cowering in fear. I’m Xamu, and I won’t be intimidated. Don’t think for a second that I fear you. [Yenzi spits on Knoxman.]    Dipalesa smiles. But Knoxman and his gang attack Yenzi leaving him brutalised. One of the gang members holds Dipalesa back from trying to intervene.    Knoxman: Go swim with the fishes, son. This is the 26’s territory, we rule here. [He makes a sign.]  Gang: Affirmative.  Knoxman: We out.    CJ looks at Yenzi then also leaves with the gang.    Act 1 Scene 4  While Yenzi is lying down, Dipalesa comes to comfort him.    Dipalesa: Yohh, I’m so sorry. I’m really really sorry.  Yenzi: For what?  Dipalesa: This is all my fault, like seriously, if it wasn’t for me and my big you wouldn’t be...    Yenzi puts his finger on her mouth.    Yenzi: Shhh, please don’t blame yourself, it’s not your fault.  Dipalesa: [Flirting] The name is Dipalesa.  Yenzi: I know…     They look straight at each other’s eyes.    Dipalesa: Good.    They draw closer to each other and kiss.    Yenzi: [He speaks with a soft voice] Now help me get up.  Dipalesa: [Snaps out of her dreamy state] Oh yeah, yeah sorry.    Dipalesa helps Yenzi get up and they stare at each other.    Dipalesa: It’s getting late, I gotta go.  Yenzi: Yeah…  Dipalesa leaves and Yenzi keeps staring after her.    Act 2 Scene 1  Yenzi’s bedroom. Yenzi can’t stop thinking about Dipalesa. Yenzi’s mom enters the room.  Roseline: Yenzi… [In SeTswana] And then, what happened to your eye?  Yenzi: I got hit by the ball while playing cricket at school.  Roseline: Oh okay… Get ready we have visitors coming.  Yenzi: Mmh, no wonder it smells so nice.  Roseline: Yep.  Yenzi: Eish ma, can I call Rhulani? Because you know I get bored when there’s people around.   Roseline: You can go but make it snappy. DON’T BE LATE!  Yenzi: [Gets off his bed to call Rhulani] Okay, cool.    Act 2 Scene 2  The sitting room. Knock at the door.    Roseline: I’m coming.    The door opens and the guests come in.    Roseline: Heyyyy.  Angelina [Dipalesa’s mom]: Hello, my friend!!  Roseline: You good?  Angelina: Yeah, I’m all good. You?  Roseline: Yeah, I’m good thanks. [Greeting Dipalesa] Hello, girl.  Dipalesa: Heyy.  Roseline: How are you?  Dipalesa: I’m good.  Roseline: Okay, you guys are welcome. Y’all can come in.    Act 2 Scene 3  Angelina: [Sitting in the dining room] You know, I was expecting to see Yenz’okuhle. I wonder where is he?  Roseline: He went to call his friend because, “He doesn’t wanna get bored.”  Angelina: That’s how today’s kids are, even this one wanted to bring her friend along, but I refused.   Roseline: Do you want something to drink?  Angelina: Yes please, may I please have juice.    Dipalesa is busy on her phone.    Angelina: Dipalesa, something to drink?  Dipalesa: Nop.    The door opens. Yenzi and Rhulani come in laughing.    Roseline: I’m pretty sure it’s them.    Yenzi and Rhulani are shocked to see that Dipalesa is also in the house.    Roseline: Oh good, you’ve arrived.  Yenzi: [Staring at Dipalesa] Ya…  Roseline: You know Angelina, right?    Yenzi: Yah, yah, hello.  Angelina: Yoh, Yenz’okuhle…  Yenzi: Yes…  Angelina: You’re all grown up! The last time I saw you, you were four, five years.  Yenzi: Haha.  Angelina: [Pointing at Dipalesa] Come, let me introduce you. This is my stepdaughter. Palesa, this is Yenz’okuhle.    They shake hands.    Yenzi: Glad to see you again.  Roseline: Eh, you’ve met before? Where?  Dipalesa: Oh, we go to the same school.  Roseline: Ohhh, okay.    Rhulani clears his throat.    Roseline: Ohh, this is Yenzi’s friend, Rhulani.  Rhulani: But they call me Rex.  Angelina: Oh, nice to meet you, Rex. I’m Angelina.  Dipalesa: Uhmm… can I use the bathroom?  Roseline: Yeah sure. Yenzi, please show her.    Act 2 Scene 4  Later on…    Angelina: Yohh! My friend, thank you for the food. It was so nice, but it’s our time to leave now.  Roseline: Ya neh, anyways it was nice having ya’ll. Hope we’ll see you guys next time.  Angelina: Yenzi, don’t stress your mom, hey.  Yenzi: Yes, Dipalesa. Hope I’ll see you around.  Dipalesa: Yeah, you will. [She takes a pen from the table, she writes her number on Yenzi’s arm, and then she leaves.]    Act 3 Scene 1  Yenzi’s bedroom. He is still sleeping.    Roseline: Yenzi…Yenzi…Yenz’okuhle!  Yenzi: [Wakes up] Ma!  Roseline: I’m off to work. I left some money on top of the room divider – please buy bread and electricity.  Yenzi: Okay.    Act 3 Scene 2    Rhulani’s house. Yenzi shouting by the gate.    Yenzi: Rex… Rex… Rhulani!  Rhulani: [He comes out wearing pyjamas] Ah no man, Yenzi. Why are you waking me up so early?  Yenzi: Put on your shoes and let’s go.  Rhulani: Heeeh, go where?  Yenzi: We going to the shops there.  Rhulani: [Xitsonga] I am coming now.    Act 3 Scene 3  Yenzi and Rhulani are on their way to the shop. On the way, they see the gambling boys again. Yenzi looks at Rhulani.    Rhulani: Ah no, boy, don’t go there.  Yenzi: Relax, dude, I’ll just bet with this R10. If I lose, we leave.   Rhulani: Mmh okay, don’t say I didn’t warn you.    Yenzi goes and plays.    Knoxman: Oh yeah, the bad luck has passed. I hope you have removed the curse.  Yenzi: [Holding the dice in his hands] Chill, Knox. I’ll hit nine downs.  BT: Ahh no, this one is just all talk. Let me deal with him for you.    Yenzi throws the dice and hits 11.    BT: Ahh, that burst of speed is all gone now, bro, R20 bet.  Knoxman: R20 bet set, one man oil. That’s the bet, roll the dice, Zulu boy.    Yenzi plays and hits a random number.    BIG: Apen?  BT: This is my business, BIG. Step aside.    Yenzi loses after buying an apen.    BT: Bang! I told you guys that this boys’ burst of speed is all gone now.  Rhulani: Aii, Yenzi, let’s go. You can see it’s not your day  Yenzi: Hang ten, bro. I am busy losing money here and you busy telling me about leaving. Leave, dude!    Rhulani leaves and Yenzi carries on playing.    Act 4 Scene 1  Roseline comes home and the house is dark.    Roseline: Yenzi! Yenz’okuhle! [Wondering] Where is this child?    Yenzi comes back home crying.    Roseline: Yenzi! Where are you from, and why are you crying?  Yenzi: I’m from the shop.  Roseline: So why are you crying?  Yenzi: I have been mugged.  Roseline: Mugged? Where?    Yenzi cries out loud and she comforts him.    Roseline: Don’t cry, at least they didn’t hurt you.    Act 4 Scene 2  Roseline’s bedroom. Roseline thinks about what has been happening to Yenzi. She kneels down, starts praying and crying.    Act 5 Scene 1  The next day Roseline is watching TV and Yenzi comes to her.    Yenzi: Hey mom, you didn’t go to work today?  Roseline: Mmh, it’s my day off.  Yenzi: Oh okay, can you please give me money for airtime.  Roseline: No, you’re starting with your nonsense now.  Yenzi: Ahh, mom, I’m begging you.  Roseline: Aii, go to take my wallet under my pillow.    Yenzi runs to get the wallet.    Roseline: Here, take this [Giving him R50] I want my change.  Yenzi: Okay. [He runs out the house.]  Roseline: And now, where are you going?  Yenzi: I’m going to buy airtime.  Roseline: [Jokingly] I wish you can get mugged again.    Yenzi goes back to play dice.     Act 6 Scene 1  Yenzi: Hey, gents    The gang greets him back and they start playing. Yenzi loses all the money and he thinks of stealing his mother’s money that he saw in the wallet.    Act 6 Scene 2  Yenzi runs to his house and bumps into Dipalesa and Rhulani.    Rhulani: Hey, Yenzi, what up, my dawg? Why you running so fast?   Yenzi: [Disgusted] Nxxai, fuck you!  Dipalesa: Eh, Yenzi, are you okay?  Yenzi: That’s none of your business. Infact, you and I are strangers, so why do you even care?    He runs to his house, steals his mother’s money and then goes back to the dice.    Act 7 Scene 1   BT: Geez, you back?  Yenzi: Yeah, the little one has risen.  CJ: Let me help you, bro. How much you got?  Yenzi: I’ve money like dust. Can’t touch this.  BIG: Cool, SBV.  BT: Eh, this man loves gambling.  CJ: Yeah, this man loves gambling, not money.  BT: That is why he keeps losing.  Knoxman: Come on, drop that silly talk.    They start playing then the police van stops. They all try to run away but a police officer pulls out a gun.    Policeman 1: [With a gun in his hands] Don’t you even dare, otherwise I’ll pull the trigger!  Policeman 2: Disgusting, man. You’re gambling while you so young. Ah, detective, we have to arrest them. Voetsek, everyone down!   BIG: We ask for your forgiveness. We won’t ever do this again.  Policeman 1: Aii voetsek, get down! Infact, put everything you have on this board!    Everyone takes out everything they have and throws it on top of the dice board. Yenzi looks at the money and he comes up with an idea.    Policeman 2: Eh, detective, that’s a lot of cash on the board. I’m sure it’s close to R2 000. That is why they keep failing at school. I wonder what their parents would say. So, talk, who is Knoxman here?    They point at Knoxman and the policemen laugh.    Policeman 1: Gee. So, it’s this one?    Yenzi grabs all the money and runs away.    Policeman 2: Hey, you! Where are you going?    He fires a warning shot but Yenzi keeps running so he chases him. Yenzi runs to his house.    Act 7 Scene 2   Policeman 2 asks around for Yenzi. He sees Dipalesa and asks if she has seen Yenzi and she shows the detective the place Yenzi ran away to.    Act 7 Scene 3   Inside the house.    Roseline: Geez… and then?  Yenzi: Ah, no, Rex and I were just working out.   Roseline: Oh ok, but Rhulani came here looking for you.  Yenzi: Yah, he eventually found me.  Roseline: Mmh…    A knock on the door. Yenzi is scared.    Yenzi: Eish, ma, if someone is looking for me, please tell them I’m not here.  Roseline: Ok, but check who is at the door.    A second knock on the door.     Yenzi: [He quickly goes to his bedroom.] You’ll check.    A third knock on the door.     Roseline: Who is it??  Policeman 2: It’s Detective Tau.  Roseline: [Talking to herself on her way to open the door] Detective!? [She opens the door].  Policeman 2: Greetings.  Roseline: Yes. How can I help you, detective?  Policeman 2: I am looking for a boy [Gives a full description] they said he came into this house.  Roseline: Oh no! It’s only my son who came into the house.  Policeman 2: Uhmm, can you call him? Maybe he can help me.  Roseline: Yenzi!    Yenzi is scared and doesn’t know what to do. He starts to think of a plan.    Roseline: Yenzi!! [She waits a little.] Come on, Yenz’okuhle. I’m calling you, gee!! You know what detective let me go and call him, just wait for me right here.    When she gets inside Yenzi’s room, she sees him trying to escape through the window.    Roseline: What are you doing?  Yenzi: [Nervous] Nothing, I dropped my phone outside.  Roseline: There’s your phone on top of the table.  Yenzi: Oh, eish, I didn’t see it.  Roseline: Well, then, let’s go. There’s someone looking for you.  Yenzi: Who is it?  Roseline: Let’s go see him. He just wants your help.    She grabs Yenzi’s hand and takes him to the door. As soon as Yenzi sees the police, he tries running away, but the police catch him and call the other police with the other gamblers. After a while, they all come together and the police wants to punish them for gambling.    Policeman 2: Yaahh, today, we are going to teach you a listen in front of your family and friends. We want to make an example out of y’all.    Act 8 Scene 1  Dipalesa runs to Yenzi’s mum.    Dipalesa: [Calling for Roseline] Yenzi’s mum, ma!    Roseline sees Dipalesa.    Dipalesa: Yenzi’s mum, the police have arrested Yenzi and they wana beat him up. Come and help him!  Roseline: [Showing no emotions] Don’t tell me about Yenz’okuhle.  Dipalesa: But he’s your chid!  Roseline: I don’t have a child.  Dipalesa: I’m begging you, go help him!  Roseline: Dipalesa, go home.  Dipalesa: Please ma, what if they kill him?  Roseline: I said get out! [She starts crying.]    Dipalesa leaves as Roseline cries on the floor.    Act 8 Scene 2   Policeman 1: Talk, why were you gambling?    They are all quiet.    Policeman 1: Answer the damn question! Who is Knoxman?    They all point at Knoxman.    Policeman 2: Stand Knoxman.  Knoxman: [Stands up] No, I’m not Knoxman.  Policeman 2: Voetsek! Did I say you must talk?    Knoxman stands in silence.    Policeman 2: Heyy, son, don’t look me in the eyes when I’m talking to you. Did I say you must talk!? [He slaps Knoxman and then asks] Oh, I see. So, I’m the fool here, talking to myself, right?     Knoxman shakes his head.    Policeman 2: [Slaps him again] How am I supposed to know what you are saying!?    Knoxman starts crying.    Policeman 2: [Slaps him again] I didn’t say cry.    Knoxman tries to hide his crying.    Policeman 1: [Laughs] No man, detective, that’s enough. It’s your time to talk. So, you are Knoxman?  Knoxman: No, bro. I’m not Knoxman.  Policeman 1: [Slaps him] Don’t tell me lies!  Knoxman: [Crying] I’m not telling you lies. I’m not Knoxman.  Policeman 1: Then who is?  Knoxman: I also don’t know. I’ve just met these guys. Perhaps Knoxman is that Zulu boy.   Yenzi: Don’t mess with me! Eh, Sir, he is Knoxman.  Policeman 2: [Slaps Yenzi] Voetsek, keep quiet! Who said you must speak? No, detective these kids will never tell us the truth. Let’s punish all of them.  Policeman 1: Ya, you are right. You boys are familiar with playing dice, right? So, we’re going to give you 7 lashes each. Knoxman, you are up first. You Zulu boy, with your big mouth. Take off your belt.  Yenzi: I didn’t put it on.    The detective searches everyone for belts and takes one from CJ. They all get beaten up and Yenzi’s mum is looking at the window while they are beating her son. After the police left, Rhulani and Dipalesa carry Yenzi to the house and Yenzi sees his ashamed mother, he is embarrassed to talk to her, so he just goes to the bedroom.    Act 8 Scene 3  Roseline kneels down and prays for her son. Yenzi overhears her.    Roseline: Father, Lord, I have been your servant ever since, I was in your lane so why are you punishing me? You first took my husband and now you want to take my son away. I’ve been praying everyday but I never get a chance to get my blessings. What have I done Lord, answer me what? All I’m asking from you is to save my son, save him. I will do anything. Just take me instead, but please save Yenz’okuhle! [She starts crying.]    After she cries for a short while, she decides to go check up on Yenzi, but she finds him dead as he has committed suicide.  