Suppressed Feeling    In the beginning it was all wonders,   You attracted me with your sympathy,  You made me fall in love with you like magic,   Your touches reflected on me like poetry,  I couldn't understand your fantasies,    Sometimes I say that I'm just another one who shouldn't have been born,  Because I have been hurt way too much,  My life no longer has meaning,  I was a victim of suppressed feeling,  And fake happiness,  I feel lost,  Tears roll down my face,  My life is full of disgust,  Because of great wounds my soul is composed of,     Worse than burning in flames,  is always going to bed,  with a person you no longer love,    You promised me a life of a queen,   that we will always walk together,     “Last month he hit me, but ok! It was the first time.  Last week he hit me again, but it was my fault.   He hit me again days ago, he regretted it, he promised me it was the last time.   Today! Today he hit me again! This time was worse than all the other times!  He marked me, he mistreated me, he killed me, though I remained alive.   He put scars on my body.   The worst part was that scar that I carry with me inside all the time.”    I was the victim of a violent relationship   Where there was no affection or feeling,   Am I no princess?  Or I'm the worst creature in nature?    After all, you wore a mask,  You made me fall in love with you deeply,  But over time, your demonstration of love became the basis of aggression,  And our relationship became the basis of betrayal,  It's very disappointing,  Lately, crying has been my biggest occupation,  There is no other solution,    Following our love,  Violence became the routine,  Your insistence on making me suffer  So frequently,   The worst is that no one believes in my innocence,     In my soul you hit,   because the love I have for you I could not leave,   You traded affection for malice,   Love for pain,  Feeling for pretense,     I looked at the sky,   I remembered when you promised to take me to church with a veil,   If there was a prize for the unhappiest woman in the world,   I would win the trophy,     You promised me eternal happiness,   But you turned my life in a living hell