Thabo   Faggot. This seven letter word is all that Thabo can think of while walking barefoot past the abandoned mud-huts at the border of Majokweni Village. He is heading towards the scorched dry veld that has been colonised by knee-high golden grass and brown whistling thorn trees. Children are shouting behind him “THAAABO... THAAABO… BUUUYAAA!”. He ignores them. This word has cut through his chest like a sharp knife and left him speechless. The sharp tone and humiliating laughter that cradled the word as it voluntarily left the perpetrator’s cracked lips have sent Thabo bolting for mercy. He stops, looks behind, no one’s following him. He looks up, and a soft voice escapes his brown chapped lips, “Good”.   Thabo was born on the 12th of October 2009 at 03:00 am in MaDlamini’s hut, the village sangoma. His conception was what the village grapevine described as abnormal, divisive and immoral. Thabo’s mother was in a sexual relationship with her Indian employer while working as the family’s housekeeper. This later resulted in the conception of Thabo, who while still growing in his mother’s womb, had no father come forth to acknowledge and claim him as his own. Culturally, for Thabo’s mother, this meant that inhlawulo would not be paid for her son. Thus, he would never be able to use his father’s surname, nor ever be acknowledged by his paternal family.   Feelings of disgust and shame visited his mother on a daily basis due to the judgement and humiliation she encountered from her own family and community. Her son’s life was already filled with turmoil and resentment before she gave birth to him. Sadly, it became even worse after he was born. His soft black curly hair and light brown caramel skin are still a constant reminder to the community of how he was conceived. Despite speaking IsiZulu fluently and herding cattle with the other boys in the village, he is still regarded as different, “other”, ikula, and not seen as part of the community. A forced laugh always seems to make it easier to swallow the racist comments about his hair and ethnicity. Yet today, the word Faggot has crumbled him and penetrated his heavily guarded heart.   After walking for what seems to be an eternity, Thabo finds himself standing at the cliffs. EMaweni is the place where lightning from the heavens strikes the rocks on the edge of the cliff during a thunderstorm. He has walked beyond the borders of his small village and ended up at the place where the heavens meet.   He sobs a little, looks down, and then sees, maybe, a body far down below, and the rocks that have been shattered apart by lightning. He tries to sit down, but the surface on the cliff is hard. He then tries to manoeuvre himself to a more comfortable position. Then silence… he’s frozen, and his eyes are fixed on a hazy image in-between the sooty rocks and fulgurite bits. He wipes his eyes and looks again. Still not clear. He leans forward to get a better view, but still can’t see the object clearly. He kneels on the rock and places both hands in front of him. Slo-o-o-o-o-o-wly, he leans even closer to the edge of the cliff. Still, ayibonakali kahle lento elaphaya phansi ngase hlahleni (he can’t clearly see the object that is down there in-between the trees).   But, yes… Now he can see. A person! What a mangled state!  He looks up, puzzled and disturbed, puts his left hand above his eyebrows in order to block out the strong rays of the African sun, and uses his right hand to balance his body. He fixates more intently on another object in-between the trees ahead. Silence… until a soft voice escapes his brown chapped lips, “Are those fee... feet?” Standing there firmly? He looks down again at the spread-eagled ruin below; no accident.   