Like Hamlet    I    It is dark.  Silence.  In the distance, someone is singing.    Silence again.    A tap drips three times. Then again.  Someone clears their throat.  In the distance, someone is singing.    Hamlet:  (Lit suddenly from a distance) In the distance someone is singing. I can hear the vowels, empty and whole at the same time.    The singing stops. It is dark again.    Hamlet:  (Lit suddenly from very close) The singing stops.    Ophelia is in a room with four mirrors. She can’t look at herself.    Ophelia: It is raining.  Engorged drops  Pry loose from hot tar  The warm damp smell of Sauna  Sundays.  Of dancing in the rain dodging bullets  Dodging droplets  ’Til mother-calls cut through the balmy air  and you slide inside  dodging the flu and wet clothes.    She lifts her shirt. Suddenly naked.    Suddenly naked I find you here  Suddenly naked  All at once and suddenly    She puts her hand to the mirror closest to her. Smearing her reflection.    It’s very hot here.  I hold the heat in my belly  It bleeds out down my legs  It touches my ankles  It streams in rivulets  It fills my socks    A torch shines into one mirror, reflected in the others, obscuring her figure.    Suddenly naked.  Like feet unclothed on the beach sand.    In the distance, Hamlet is singing. The song stops abruptly, mid-note, in ellipsis. It never completes itself.    Beat.    There is darkness.      II    Gertrude: (Emerging out of the gloom) Hamlet? Hamlet?    She is knitting furiously, dropping stitches, wool tangles around her hands like bloody intestines. She does not see the needles, only knits, as if her hands are apart from her body.    The taste of cold iron  Like a gun in my mouth  Like bullets sliding over my palate  The blood  Seeps from the tooth marks in my tongue  When I see you  Hamlet?  I would like to  Ha…    The knitting travels up over her head, threads around her throat and yet she keeps knitting    Hang me upside down in frozen dreams I am for you I am for you please help me ha… ha…Hamlet hand me my gun I want to taste the blood running down my hands Hamlet, ha…    It won’t come clean  It won’t come clean  It won’t come  Come  Come  Cum    The knitting trembles.    The blood circles the drain  Let my eyes see nothing but circling blood  Let my heart hold heavy  Let me  Hang me  Hold me  Hold me by the skin of my neck  Like a kitten  With less innocence,  Hamlet.  Hamlet?    The knitting falls. Her hands are between her legs.    (Softly) Like a kitten  Like a pussy cat  Like your mother,  Only yours.  Like my breast which hangs loose  Like my hair which strokes  The nape of my neck  Like my breath which caresses the rain  Like my breath which steams the window  Like my breath  ragged on his chest.      III    Claudius: (Watching Gertrude) Why are you here?    Gertrude: (Vocal) Mmm.    Hamlet and Ophelia are apart. Gertrude is watching.    Ophelia: Hamlet? (Her words materialize before her)  I like the way you catch sunlight in your eyes.  I’ve been trying to word this.  I think you are crisp sheets  And my crumpled skin dreams of lying next to you  I think you are supple shoes  Buttery leather and your naked sole  Hamlet: Your eyes are as bright as a full moon burning  And as deep as lake waters churning below my feet as I  Dangle  Catching glimpses of the spaces between your knuckles  The vulnerable skin curves there  I want to fill up all the cracks in your skin  I want to trace the space between your fingers  I want you to tell me again that my eyes are a lake full of stars  Burning and rippling on the surface of the water  Like your desire for me  Hamlet  Like your mad desire for me  Hamlet    Ophelia continues to write Hamlet’s name, her hand running away in chalky obsession.    Hamlet: What do you want me to say?    Ophelia: What do you want to say?    Beat.    Hamlet: Ophelia.     Beat.    Your name makes me think of jumping off of high-rise buildings  Of opium scents in the public bathrooms of youth  Of sunrises over the sleeping bodies of cities  Ophelia  I am trying to write you  I am trying to write you poetry  I am trying to say that your hands hold me in stillness when I see them  When I see  Long fingers  I imagine your fingers in my hair, Ophelia.  Your long fingers,  Your long fingers supporting my head, which gets so heavy  Ophelia.  I am trying to take deeper breaths, because you’re living in my clavicle  I want to wash myself clean for you  I want to live inside a sauna for you and sweat out all the dirt  That I have carried for so many years  I want to scrub away my filthy genes for you  I want to breathe out the air that she gave me  I want to breathe you in,  Ophelia.  I find your scent clinging to me  I turn my head and smell you in the air my hair leaves behind  Ophelia  I want to smell you on my sheets  I want to wrap you up in crisp sheets and save you from the dirt of the world  I want to live in a glass box with you  I want to see you bloom  ... in a glass box with you,  I want to bloom with you.  I want to live in a glass box with you.  I want to let the sun shine on your skin  So smooth  I want to let my hands slide slippery on your body  I want to make myself clean for you  I want to be clean enough for your love  I want to be enough for your love  I want to be clean  I want to be enough  I want to be enough    Beat.    Hamlet: What do you want to say?    Ophelia: What do you want me to say?    Ophelia continues writing Hamlet’s name, starts rubbing it out and correcting it, smearing it, altering it. Darkness falls. She sings and writes Hamlet’s name. Her voice is as clean as a cat’s.      IV    Claudius is watching Gertrude.    She holds her hands in front of her. Her hands dance, coupled and uncoupled, like leaves circling in the air around each other as they fall from high-up branches, rejected by the tree that grew them.    Claudius: I found you long ago behind my eyelids, in the circles left by lights that burned my retinas.  Gertrude.  I see you spill from the cracks in my ceiling while I’m trying to sleep.  Gertrude?  Can you see me Gertrude?    Gertrude watches her own hands, holding.    I see you in the skies stretched like skin over the horizon, I hold you  soft against my skin, I feel you forbidden, I feel you forbidden between  my fingers, I feel you forbidden, Gertrude.  Can you be mine please?  Can I call you mine?    Gertrude doesn't answer.    Can I call you?  Can I  Can  Is it possible to hold somebody in the palm of your hand?  Is it possible to hold your body all at once,  I want to swallow you whole.  Gertrude?  Can you see me Gertrude?    Gertrude: (Not looking at Claudius) I can see you Claudius.    Claudius: Can you see me Gertrude?    Gertrude: (Not looking at Claudius) I can see you Claudius.    Claudius: I will keep watching you Gertrude.    Gertrude: (Not looking at Claudius) I can see you Claudius.    Claudius: Gertrude, can you see me?    Gertrude: (Looking into Claudius’ eyes) I can see you.    Claudius leaves.    Claudius watches Gertrude from a distance.    Gertrude: (Calling out to Ophelia:) Their eyes are the same, did you know?  All of them  Men.  I see only pigmented holes into their souls  I see  But I can’t look at them  Hamlet has such beautiful eyes, did you know?  Did you know?  Did you know, you filthy bitch?  Did you know?    Gertrude’s hands begin to dance, leaves falling dead.    One’s as good as the other,  One’s as good as the other, did you know?    She sings, a song half-remembered and then again forgotten.  Beat.    Ophelia: I was right.    Gertrude: I know.    Claudius: (From a distance)... Driven by a mainspring  which must be wound regularly.  Tight. Tightly wound.  The force is relayed through a series of gears  to power a weighted wheel  which oscillates back and forth.  which oscillates back and forth at a constant rate.    (To Gertrude:) Can you see me?    Beat.    Why are you here?      V    Gertrude cannot hear him.    Hamlet is cleaning. Brushstrokes and soapy suds. Ophelia leaves a trail of mud.    Ophelia: I threw you into the sea. I held on so tightly that I let you go. I held on so tightly.  We can look, but we can’t touch,  or own,  or hold,  or belong,  anywhere.  I held,  I was still holding,  after you scraped yourself away  long after  after,  and nothing on my fingertips and nothing left to throw and still you here, still everything, still throbbing, still throbbing, distant.    Gertrude begins to dance. Hamlet watches her.      VI    Gertrude: (Laughing) Did you know?    Beat.     (To Ophelia:) What?    Ophelia: You know what.    Beat.    Ophelia: I was right.    Gertrude: I know.    Ophelia: He was right.    Gertrude: I know.    Ophelia: I’m… (Begins to say:) sorry…    Gertrude: (Interrupting) Don’t.    Beat.    Gertrude: Perhaps…?    Ophelia: No.    Beat.    Have you...    Gertrude: No.    Ophelia: Oh.    Beat.    Gertrude: When I lie underwater, I try to see how long I can hold my breath.  They say it’s  euphoric.    Ophelia: I’d never come up.    Gertrude: Perhaps.    Ophelia: No. I don’t know if I’d ever...    Gertrude: I do, every time.    Beat.    What?    Ophelia: You know what.    Beat.    Gertrude: To never come up.    Ophelia: What?    Gertrude: That moment.    Ophelia: Clarity.    Gertrude: Perhaps.    Ophelia: Mmm.    Beat.    Like that moment just before touch. Like just before.    Gertrude: Perhaps...    Ophelia: No.    Gertrude: Perhaps.    Ophelia: No.    I’m… (Begins to say:) sorry    Gertrude: (Interrupting) don’t.    Beat.    Gertrude: Perhaps.    Ophelia: Perhaps.    Gertrude turns towards Claudius. Claudius joins Gertrude. They are dancing very closely. Ophelia watches. Hamlet cleans, and cleans, until…      VII    Hamlet: (All at once, words retch out of his body)…When I was younger, my dad took me to a concert  I sat high on his shoulders  So clean and clear at the top of the universe  I could hear the crowd below me  But I was growing taller  and  He was holding me down  I was a balloon straining  Pulling against his neck like a  Dog on a leash  Pulling against his neck like a  Stuffed toy dangling by one ear  From the hand of a sleeping child  Swinging gently with the rhythm of their breath  Pulling against his neck  like a noose    Gertrude: (Moving further away from Claudius) Hamlet?  Do you remember as a child when you would lie  On the backseat of the car  And listen to the sea go by  And watch the stars stay still  And us moving  And us driving  Do you remember Hamlet?  And you would pretend to be asleep, so I would carry you inside  Lifting you from the back of my car    Claudius pulls her quickly very close to him, she exhales and speaks muffled against his chest.    Oh! –  Sometimes you did sleep  Do you remember Hamlet?  Do you remember?  With the stars staying still and us moving  And us moving under the blanket of stars  Sometimes I would take the long way home Hamlet  Just to feel    Claudius lifts Gertrude on top of him    Your leaden body, heavy with sleep,  In my arms  Against my breast  So heavy  Hanging  Hamlet?  Do you remember?    Hamlet scrubs with more fervour, begins to sing, try to remember a song buried deep inside the past, pulling out fragments.      VIII    Claudius: Driven by a mainspring  which must be  Tightly wound.  The force relayed through a series of gears  powers a wheel  which oscillates back and forth.  Why are you here?    Gertrude: Because you spoke first.      IX    Claudius dances with Gertrude, gently now, spinning around and around like a ballerina in a jewellery box.    He speaks softly to her, only just audible.    Claudius: Gertrude, I like your fingernails  I like how they arch  Like the small of your back in the midst of ecstasy  I like the sliver of white rim at the tip  I like your fingernails and how they curve like the conch shell of your ear  I hold your hand to my ear and hear the sea atop your fingertips  Gertrude  I am drowning  Baby  I am drowning  I breathe underwater but I can’t find you there.  Gertrude?  It’s flooding and I can’t find you.  I can’t find you.  Are you floating?  Are you with his ghostly life raft?  Are you floating?  Are you still hanging on to him?    Gertrude: (Turning away from him, picking up her knitting, swaying to the sound of Hamlet’s rhythmic scrubbing) No.    Claudius: Are you still hanging on to him?    Gertrude: No.    Claudius: Are you still hanging on to him?    Gertrude: No.    Claudius: Baby, am I pathetic?    Gertrude knits.    Claudius: Am I pathetic?    Gertrude knits.    Claudius: Gertrude, hang on to me    Beat.    Hang on to me    Beat.    Let me be a life raft. I’m sinking.    Beat.    I’ll count to ten. I’ll wait for you.    Gertrude: Hamlet?    Claudius: I’ll count to ten. I’ll wait for you.    Gertrude: Hamlet?    She watches.      X    Hamlet: Are you okay?    Ophelia: Ja. Are you okay?    Hamlet: (Softly) Ja.    Ophelia: (Softly) Ja.    Beat.    Hamlet: It’s us. It’s us. It’s…    Ophelia: (Vocal) Mmm. It.    Hamlet: That.    Ophelia: It. Ja.    Hamlet: Fine.    Ophelia: Fine.    Hamlet: I’d like you to stay.      XI    Claudius: (From a distance) Why are you here?    Gertrude is not listening.    Gertrude: I’d like you to stay.    Hamlet is not listening.    Ophelia: I’m sorry.    Gertrude is not listening.      XII    Gertrude goes to lie on the floor in front of Hamlet.  He cleans around her.    Hamlet: So many things unclean,  So many things that dirty me for you  So many  So many  I can’t catch my breath  I can’t catch my breath without thinking about the filthy pollution  I can’t pollute you, Ophelia  You’re so pure  I can’t pollute you  Ophelia?  Wait for me  It must come clean  Wait –   Ophelia, it must come clean  Wait –  Ophelia, wait –  Ophelia –  Keep yourself open for me  I want to live in a glass box with you  A glass box that sparkles  With no smears on the glass  Ophelia  Wait –  I’m smearing the glass,  Wait, Ophelia –  My breath-fog opaque  I’m smearing the glass  I draw your face in the fog  Droplets hang on the edge of the line and then  Run  Down  Parallel lines  Ophelia  Wait for me  Ophelia  Wait –  Ophelia  Wait for me.  Ophelia –    Beat.    For once just look at me.      Ophelia writes chalky letters to Hamlet. She can’t look at him.    Ophelia: Hamlet  … I’ve been waiting.  Hamlet?  ….Why won’t you hold me, Hamlet?  Let me hang...  Let me hang heavy from your hand  Hamlet,  I’m losing it  I can’t find it any more  It, that, it, us,  it –  Hamlet.  Hamlet?  Hold me again  Press your thumb soft against the line of my collarbone  Hamlet,  Press your thumb soft against the rib of my ear  Slip your hand soft against the back of my neck  Slip your hand soft  Soft –  Hamlet?  I loan myself to you.  Hamlet.  I loan myself to you.  I loan myself to you  Without expiry.    Hamlet cannot hear her over the sound of his scrubbing.    Gertrude: Did you know that a hamlet is a small town?  Did you know that a hamlet is a small town?  Did you know that a hamlet is a small town?  Did you know that a hamlet is a small town?  Did you know that a hamlet is a small town?  Did you know that a hamlet is a small town?    It’s not a small piece of ham.      XIII    Claudius: What makes us different?  Trying to make it work  I’m tired of writing now.  Harden  Keep the frame intact  I want to take  To break,  To roll around in the filth of this – of this thing  I want to get through  I want to scrape through  You can see me, I know you can see me.    Gertrude is laughing.    Your neck, your wrists, your chest  Your footsteps.  Your neck, your wrists, your chest  Your chest  Your wrists  Your neck.    Gertrude: (Laughing) Hamlet?    Claudius grabs her arm.    Gertrude: You get to see someone’s real side.    Claudius: Tell me, how can I get to see you?    Gertrude: (Laughs) I don’t think you want to see me.    Claudius: Why not?    Gertrude: (Vocal) Mmm.    Claudius: I don’t see the problem here.    Gertrude: Sometimes it’s worth it. Sometimes it’s not.    Hamlet?    Hamlet: (Laughing) I wanted this so badly.    Ophelia picks up Gertrude’s knitting and slowly pulls out the thread, watching.      XIV    Hamlet: Are you okay?    Ophelia: Are you okay?    Hamlet: (Softly) Ja.    Ophelia: It’s us. It’s...    Hamlet: That.    Ophelia: Fine.    Hamlet: That first moment…    Gertrude: (Interrupting) Hamlet?    Claudius: (To Hamlet) Why are you here?    Hamlet: (To Ophelia) I want you to stay.    Ophelia isn’t listening.    Ophelia: (To Gertrude) I was right.    Gertrude: I know.    Ophelia: I’m… (Begins to say:) sorry    Gertrude: (Interrupting) I know.    Claudius: (To Hamlet) Why are you here?    Ophelia: I want to see you,  but I don’t want you to see me  I can’t bear to see myself seen by you    Gertrude: Hamlet?    Hamlet is scrubbing, furiously.      XV    All four characters speak over one another, tumbling, seething.    Hamlet: When my father passed away he left  me a ring  He left it to me  His father left it to him  I should have kept it safe  I should have kept him safe, but I  didn’t.  But memories fade so quickly  As people do  I should have kept him safe, but I  didn’t.  (Repeated)    Ophelia: I threw you into the sea. I held on so  tightly that I let you go. I held on so  tightly. We can look, but we can’t  touch, or own, or hold, or belong,  anywhere. I held on, I kept holding,  long after you were skeleton or a frame  or nothing, or nothing, or nothing, or  nothing, long after you scraped  yourself away and nothing on my  fingertips and nothing left to throw and  nobody to see me, but still you here,  and still the throbbing, and still the  throbbing, and still distant, and still the  throbbing distance.    Gertrude: Do you remember as a child  when you would lie on the backseat of  the car, and listen to the sea go by, and  watch the stars stay still, and us  moving, and us driving, do you  remember Hamlet?  Sometimes I would take the long way  home Hamlet  Just to feel  Your leaden body, heavy with sleep,  In my arms  Against my breast  So heavy  Hanging  Hamlet?  Do you remember?    Claudius: ... Driven by a mainspring  which must be wound regularly.  Tight. Tightly wound.  The force is relayed through a series of  gears  to power a weighted wheel  which oscillates back and forth.  which oscillates back and forth at a  constant rate.    Hamlet: I should have kept him safe, but I didn’t.    His scrubbing intensifies.      XVI    Ophelia is pulling out the thread. It seems to never end. She is unravelling balls of wool, piling them up next to her.    Ophelia: Rosemary, for Gertrude.  Basil for Gertrude  Lavender for you,  Lavender for only you.  I can smell the rose geranium in your hair, Hamlet  I can smell it still, from when we rolled in the grass,  Hamlet, those  Green stains on your shirt  And an itchiness left salty on my skin  And your mouth left salty on my skin  And your love tight and salty on my skin,  Like I was mummified in that moment,  There  under the dappled light  Of the tree your father planted.  Oh! –   I’m bleeding. Did you know, Hamlet?  I’m bleeding. Here, where you were.    Between her legs there is blood.    I didn’t make another...  I couldn’t, Hamlet.  I couldn’t  make a little town.  Hamlet?  I couldn’t...  It’s running down here, Hamlet.  My white socks will be stained  They will be ruined,  Hamlet  Blood stains  Blood...  Blood dries brown, not red, Hamlet  Did you know?  It dries sticky and brown and clumps up, Hamlet.  It’s not clean    She tries to clean the blood with the wool    I’m trying but  I’m bleeding bits of me, Hamlet  I’m scared  Hamlet!  I’m scared  I don’t know how  Hamlet!    She is spitting on the wool and trying to clean between her legs; more and more of the wool is going into her mouth. She retches and coughs up, keeps retching, dry and raspy, keeps retching, dry heaves, keeps retching desperately. She is waving to him in the distance. In the distance, he is singing. Singing and scrubbing.    I want to see you, don’t want you to see me,  see myself seen by you. It’s excruciating. It’s everything.  I can smell the rain Hamlet. I can smell it.  It’s seeping into my belly  It’s making a home under my ribs  It’s filling the vacuum of my womb  I can smell the rain  I can’t feel it    She is floating in a puddle of water, watching the stars. She sings. A song that reminds her of her mother’s heavy bosom.    I’m a rat, Hamlet.    Hamlet begins to sing a different tune, complementary to hers, filling the gaps like water between ice cubes, wearing down her tune over time. Singing and scrubbing.    Ophelia sees a familiar face.    You are endings and beginnings  and nothing,  I departed in a dream with you.  Trying to hold onto something but losing everything, or nothing, or  everything. In the morning, the stain was a map of my childhood home. Raw,  red, after. The act of becoming.  Are you here?  Why are you here? M-    I’m a rat.  Even rats can see the stars  Even rats can feel the rain  I can feel it now  On my skin  Pinpricks of misty vapour  Pins and needles  Only wet  Only wet  I’m breathing in the water  Hamlet?  I’m breathing  I can swim underwater  I can see you here  Magnified  I can see you  I threw you into the sea  I’m sorry  I’m sorry  I’m sorry  I’m sorry  I can feel you  I can feel the water inside of me  I can feel the water flowing through me  I’m clean Hamlet  I’m clean for you.  I’m clean, I’m...    She is still.    Beat.    Hamlet stops scrubbing. He stops singing in the middle of a thought, in the middle of a breath.    There is silence.    In the distance, a violin scratches. In the distance, there is a knock at a door and it opens. There is a hug and a greeting. There is an entry and an exit. There is an exit and an entry.    Hamlet finds Ophelia’s body. He lies behind her for a while. His sadness sings high into the rafters.    Gertrude watches from a distance.      XVII    Gertrude: You  standing alone in the light  Your  blood  keeps you warm in the cold  I crept out my room and  down the stairs.  I came to a  clearing where I could see the stars dancing on a sheet of glass.  It was my  Mother... but  but I will not keep you.  Nothing. The calming sound of nothing. Still. Clarity.  My mother would always brush my hair, till every knot was unknitted. The brush  she used was given to her by her mother.  It was left to me. Her scent, the sweat from her palms, and her mother’s, was  embedded  into the handle, the strands of my hair woven through the bristles.    Gertrude starts to laugh.    He threw it out the window  It sailed between rooftops and trees.  And then it was still.  And then there was…    Gertrude laughing hysterically.    Hamlet: What is it you want? Say what you want from me!    Gertrude: I want you to fucking see me!    Nothing.    For once just look at me.    Nothing.    Hamlet is cleaning furiously.    Hamlet: The floor is filthy it won’t come clean it won’t come clean I scrub salty  seed away I scrub the salty seed of my mother’s filth it has stained me  I can find it in my cells it is dirty here and I can’t vacuum pack myself,  I can’t bear to touch you I can’t bear to look at you I can’t bear to  touch you I can’t –     He is blasting anger at Gertrude    I CAN’T BEAR TO LOOK AT YOU I CAN’T BEAR  TO TOUCH YOU THE FLOOR WON’T COME CLEAN, THE  GROUND IS STAINED, THE GROUND IS SOILED, THE SOIL IS  FULL OF MY FAMILY BLOOD AND SOIL CANNOT COME  CLEAN IT ONLY TURNS TO MUD.    Beat.    I want to crawl inside of you. I want to make my home inside of you. I  want to be at home somewhere. I want to find a home somewhere,  there. It. This. Us.  I want to lie between your breasts I want to feel your heartbeat against my  skin, I want to, I want to, I want to live in a glass box with you, I want to love in a  glass box with you  Ophelia?  Ophelia.    Ophelia is still.    Beat.    Hamlet continues to clean.    Hamlet: sometimes I feel my body is covered in syrup, like a mummified  honey-covered human, leaving my trace on everything I touch, sticky  surfaces, sticky seats, the expression on your face haunts me, holds –   I saw your eyes see my eyes, I saw my sticky fingers feel the line of your lip. I saw  too much skin to forget, I touched too much skin to forget.  Ophelia.  Sometimes your foot would cramp,  Stuck in stasis  Twisted like a wet rag  And I would hold it in my lap and press against the arch  And you would hold your breath.  My thumb perfectly fits in the arch of your foot  Fits like my thumbprint was carved onto the sole  Onto your soul  Ophelia  You would sigh  Deeply  You would sigh soft sibilance  I wanted to breathe in that air,  I wanted to hold it in my lungs,  Get high off the vapours of you  Ophelia,  In the bath with you firm against my back, your breasts floating, your  hands soft on my chest,  Float me downstream,  now,  Ophelia.  Carry me on the waters of your breast  Float me downstream  I am ready to float with you  Ophelia  I am ready.  I am ready to float away.    Hamlet watches Ophelia. He sings, his hands float in front of him helplessly.    Gertrude watches Hamlet.    Claudius watches Gertrude.    The mirrors watch them all.    