Babazile!     Babazile enters the stage. Items for sale are on display on a table.     Babazile: Dawn, dawn! Lord, we are stuck between a rock and a hard place. We have become masters of our homes, after all, these things just know how to make us pregnant and leave us like that. He says, ‘bye, you’ll figure it all out on your own, along with the burden of what you will eat.' You’re left scratching your head, wondering what is really going on here? Was it too tall an order for you to play your role as the man of the house? Gosh! Who am I fooling? Pigs could fly. Yes, I’m speaking my mind because I’ve earned that right. We have become dishcloths, waking you up from peaceful sleep when he arrives. ‘I am here’ (in a man’s voice), ‘Sipho, I’m sleeping.’  (In a man’s voice:) ‘Come on, I’ve been longing for you far too long. So?’ (Man’s voice:) ‘Come, it’ll just take a second.’ No. I’m really tired, I want to rest. (Man’s voice:) ‘Lower your voice, you’ll wake the children.’ It’s better if they wake up so that they hear the nonsense their father is saying. (Man’s voice:) ‘Is it surprising that I can crush a man when he is weak? Was he weakened by me? What could have kept that man from being defeated?’  (Man’s voice:) ‘What? Yes.’ (Man’s voice:) ‘Oh no! Really now.’ (Man’s voice:) ‘Now you are telling me rubbish. Are you saying I should find myself a side chick because this so-called ‘steady’ has gone unsteady? Forget it, I’m out of here.’ Leave. (She laughs.) Serves you right. Hell no, no, being dragged around, told to look here, go there, don’t squeeze too hard (laughs), oh no! Whatever! Rather they go to their side chicks. We are tired of being treated like slaves just because we are the so called ‘steady’. You’re ironing, you’re cleaning, you’re cooking, you’re doing everything. But when you ask for money for bread, you're given excuses. Just yesterday, you were seen at the mall with pizzas from Debonairs, with some bitch who wears fake nails and a cheeky weave.    But enough about that, no one cares. My kids are now starving, looking at me with pleading eyes: "Ma, I’m hungry!" "Ma, I need airtime!" "Ma, when is dad coming home?" Seriously? Do I look like your father to you? So, what I’m trying to say is, to hell with men. I’d rather fall in love to my stall here because at least, in the end, it’ll give me money. Exactly (goes with body expression). These things don’t come for free though. Those who cultivate gardens in their own homes and nurture them themselves are wise. I think I will join them soon. After all, these crooks are selling us rotten goods, threatening to cancel contracts if you speak out. Too bad for me, because I can’t keep quiet. Honestly, I was born with a sharp tongue. You give me rubbish I give you shit. I say that without flinching. Ask Ntombifuthi and Qhamukile. One day, they had to break up a brawl while I had that Indian pinned down.    I had clearly explained to him from the start that he should not give me less stock of apples, oranges and other fruits. Rather he gives me less stock of bananas because they were moving slow. But, hey, it was like pouring water off a duck's back. With broken English (in an Indian accent:) ‘Lady, listen me carefully, neh? Me cannot you give a half-price discount because me bought it at full price, neh? And it’s very high price, fruits and veggies cost too much at market. Now, if everyone comes here like you asking for favours, favours, my business will die, neh? So, lady, understand please. Me have rent to pay monthly, stock to maintain, and employees to pay every single day, neh? Naidoo is complaining just like you, but me also need make money. I need to feed my children and keep my household afloat, neh? Me don’t want to argue with you, neh?’ Then I decided to leave Naidoo alone with his stubbornness. But then, that samosa fool slapped me. (Expressions) Oh no, oh no, oh no!! What the fuck?! (Exaggerating).    I didn't ask much, I went straight to business (gestures). Do you know who you messing with, you Indian? I was this close sending him to heaven. I held back my anger because this job gives me the bread that feeds my children, and it was in jeopardy. Okay, that passed, but after that, things were no longer pleasant. We no longer even looked each other in the eyes; now he just sends messages, and you can see the coldness in the messages, oh Lord. Where is water so that I can rinse these things? (goes through her things) We’re in such a drought, and I’m thirsty. Why doesn’t this person who was awarded the rain tender by the minister come forward and pay up if they’re supposed to? We’re suffering! Everything is ruined, and we don’t know how to deal with this drought. Our work is suffering from the lack of rain. The increase in food prices at the market means we have no choice but to raise our prices too, you will have to forgive us my customers. The situation is forcing our hand. Where are the pastors? Pastors, do something. Pray for the rain to come and relieve us from this disaster. But I see you’re all busy with CR and this CL nonsense.    Please, pastors, you should give up your tendency to want to conform to the world. Do your job as shepherds and stop going against Jehovah’s commandments. We have Guptas in government, and now we have Guptas in churches too! What a mess! I am starting to sound like a church leader, hey, but let me tell you, I only go to church for Easter just to remind the angels that I’m still around. I’m too busy these days; no one helps me with this little business of mine, so I have to do everything myself. Sunday is my day of rest. It’s the Sabbath, right? Jehovah rested on the seventh day, so why blame me? Churches today, oh my goodness, it’s like the soap operas, like Generations. Not even the current one, but the old one with Ngamla (clicks tongue) and Senzo and Jason (squints).    Where was I? Oh yeah, there’s adultery and deception. Hey, it's like the downfall of the world has spilled into the church. Personally, I had a little disagreement with the Pastor’s wife. And guess what it was about? It was about Mam Magwaza’s funeral food arrangements, which I was supposed to handle. I had agreed to buy food, but I lost the receipt because you see, I had to also pass somewhere…somewhere there to get some holy spirit in liquid form, you know. We left the cemetery. Then the Pastor’s wife confronted me just as were entering the gate of Mam Magwaza’s home, still in the queue to wash our hands. She said, ‘But seriously, Babazile, did you take a wrong turn on the way to common sense?’     ‘I politely asked you to bring back the receipt, but you chose to do your own thing. Now, how am I supposed to face the women who contributed money for food? They’ll think I’m corrupt, I’ve stolen their money.’ I calmed myself and said, “Listen here, you Pastor’s wife, don’t you dare talk to me like that. You act as if you don’t make mistakes. You’re like a persistent mosquito, I need some peace! And can you blame the people because you and that pastor husband of yours have been scamming people. You often make your favourite announcement: ‘Brothers, blessed is the hand that gives so please donate for the construction project of the church.’ But no church gets built. We have always used a classroom as a church. From when my very own mother was still alive, to today, there has been no change. No, thank you!” After that, we were the centre of attention Magwaza’s place. There was a woman whom we had come to comfort, she joined her friend’s camp and asked for her change from the funeral fund.    Hmm, the sun is shining but rain is falling on me. Lady, you will get your change from the underworld or Jesus. Afterall you like saying Jesus is the husband of widows, right? I said to myself, ‘let me cruise home with a little swagger’ (said with pride). (Yawning) You can tell someone woke up early today. Around here, we rise with the sun. As they say, the early bird catches the worm. My customers will be here shortly, let me finish up here. Oh, by the way there is that bitch who bought airtime on credit from me yesterday, promising to pay me today. She often passes here on her way to work. Eish, she almost cost me this... (To the audience:) What? Why are you surprised that I call her a bitch? It’s the truth! I’ll tell you why, even though you didn’t ask. Rumour has it that this… okay, just to be polite it might sound better if I say, this lady. So, there was a guy, next door neighbour of this lady. This guy was a full-time couch potato.  The guy’s parents passed away and left the house for the guy. So, he’s well off, you know, typical inheritance case. The problem is that he is jobless, so people like usually just blow off the inheritance money but anyway that’s not important.    Anyway, this lady, hustles there and there, nothing serious. She likes things (emphasis) that are way out of her reach. On top of that, she has a child. The baby daddy also just a hustler with nothing to really show for it. Problem is the baby daddy is never really around especially on weekends. The inheritance guy is always partying 24/7 at his house, squandering the inheritance money. So, the lady, though she loves fancy things, she is not the type that will just throw herself at anything, you know? (clicks tongue) Shame, she tries hard to act classy, you know. So, when something needs fixing at her house, there she is on the phone: ‘Neighbour, Neighbour! Please come over. How are you? (looking away in a shy manner) We are fine. My TV is giving me issues. I have been busy pressing the remote buttons but still it doesn’t turn on. I even went to the store to buy new batteries, still it won’t turn on. I thought I should ask for your help, maybe it just needs a man’s touch, you know.’ (As neighbour:) ‘No worries.’ What a bonehead. Then again on another day: ‘neighbour, neighbour, the plumbing pipes have burst and now there’s water everywhere outside, neighbour, neighbour…’ Oh, people, say something! That time, poor guy, the baby daddy has no clue what is going on out here. They are busy smashing your partner, what a shame. Oh, please. I have said before that better I be a loner rather than dealing with the stress of being cheated on.      Wait! While still on that matter…Why do people feel the need to broadcast their personal issues on social media? You announce your relationship status, and then the next thing, you’re changing it back to single. One day it’s ‘Going to the movies with hubby,’ you even include love emojis and the next it’s ‘Men are such dogs, real assholes!’ Are people turning Facebook into a place for social justice now? That’s why I closed my account. I even told my kids, if I see you messing on Facebook, you’ll be in hot water. There are no issues on WhatsApp. Even us in the street vendor industry we have a group chat. We stay up late messaging each other, every 2 seconds qingqingqingqing phone rings. News galore, to the point that you give your customers less change, while you are busy on the app. Anyway, that’s how it goes." (laughs)      Where on earth are these people? Look, the likes of Qhamukile have started selling, and I haven’t made a single sale. Maybe it’s better to sit around waiting for someone to arrive than to have someone come asking for a credit right away. I’m telling you; you’ll be flustered just thinking about what kind of story this person will spin to convince you. (As a customer:) ‘Aunty, someone promised to give me some money in the afternoon. At this point I don’t even have taxi money. I am relying on the one who promised to give me money. I beg you, pretty please, may I buy an apple and banana on credit before I collapse you see?’  That time he is telling you lies. It’s all just a fabricated story. He is trying to be cunning, not knowing that I am way too experienced in that field. You even feel like telling him, ‘Shut up son. I have been around you know…you are talking absolute rubbish now.’ But then again, you feel sorry for the poor guy and then you give him the fruits. You just give him knowing very well you are actually gifting him. Forget about getting money later that afternoon eish! Let me tell you something you haven’t asked me. Those of you who like to buy on credit and then not pay… I told you about the hard-headed Naidoo, right? If you don’t pay, then I am the one who has to pay to settle your debt. How much profit will I make then? What will my children eat then as I am the sole provider in our household? Just because I live in a shack doesn't mean I don't pay rent; that shack is on someone else’s property, you understand?    My landlord is an old lady who doesn’t take any nonsense! She is at a much higher level of not taking nonsense than I am, you understand? That old lady is rude! Even when you try to dodge her at the end of the month because you're short on rent, she always manages to catch you sneaking around in the dark! (As the old lady:) Hey Babazile, I see you, you bustard! Where is my money you useless thing?’ It’s the small things that often spark conflicts between people. We can gossip about people all day and laugh, that's fine. But when it comes to getting my money, why do I suddenly have to chase you down? You think you can play me for a fool Mr know-it-all, huh? Like that sly cat from Wema, you really believe you can double cross me when I want what's mine. Don’t make me turn into a beast, like the time I chased off that monkey near your place – remember that? Help me out, my dear, before things get messy. I want my money in my hands right now.’ That monkey I mentioned? Oh, that’s just Mbongeni, a guy we really got along with. Mbongeni was a clean-cut fellow, didn’t drink, didn’t smoke.  He got along with my kids very well, he would often bring them little treats after work. Mbongeni, who worked as a bus driver for the Corporation, was a good man in many ways, but he had one major flaw — he couldn’t shake his attachment to the rural life. Wow, that guy really caused a lot of trouble. Even when I tried to talk sense into him – ‘Hey, dude wake up! You’re no longer in the countryside, this is Durban, where you constantly have to dodge rats who swap out rat poison for drugs like whoonga at night. The city is dangerous. Stay sharp, man!’ But no, Mbongeni never listened. He just kept going about his business, as if he was untouchable. He was really in a daze. Actually, that’s exactly what made him to be kicked out. On any given day, Mbongeni would go behind the house, get naked my friend (emphasis) and take a bath in a small tub! Sure, it was dark, but even the crew wandering the streets, puffing their stuff, seemed to have more sense than him. Neighbours were definitely noticing his strange behaviour and they were complaining. This wasn’t a new development either. He’d been acting this way for quite some time now.    It's funny how there were neighbours who didn’t mind what Mbongeni was doing. Afterall, the guy is ehmm (clears throat) gifted, you know? It just felt uneasy when kids would ask whether when uncle Mbongeni takes bath he also takes a snake with him? (Laughs) The landlord’s ears got to hear about this. Oops! It was as if she had lost her mind. It was my first time seeing her in that state. You see, the old lady is the type who don’t want any negative talk about her from the community. Even though she is always quick to point out the faults of others. Yet that day, the wheels had turned. The community was accusing her of witchcraft. It was like they were all too aware of Mbongeni’s antics in the neighbourhood. People were left wondering what he was doing with that dark hosepipe behind the house at night. That’s how poor Mbongeni got kicked out. After that the landlord didn’t rent out that room to anyone. She felt that room needed a spiritual cleansing mixture or a ceremony with a black rooster to wash away all the bad luck. We have seen strange things out here. (Clicks her tongue while licking her lips) Mmm, there’s that young boy, that Ben 10. I always watch him, even give him a lingering glance as he passes by. He’s exactly the type I like, the only issue is that my clock’s been ticking for a while now. But you know what they say, age is just a number! (Clicks her tongue) Who knows, maybe one day, I should try my luck and catch something. But he should know that I am no ATM.    I don’t have time to waste on feeding a young boyfriend. I have kids to feed. So, he will be disappointed if he is in this for the money. After I broke up with my baby daddy, I found myself lonely, couldn’t even sleep at night. It was clear to me what the problem was - I need a man. I didn’t want these old men of my age. I wanted a man who could run and perform for 90 minutes on the field like Teko Modise. I don't want a man who is into nyaope though no, no, no, no! I just remembered that there was this Biyela boy, although I can't compare him with his uncle whom I dated in the 70s, but at least shame he is a good boy. I notice that he loves working out. Then you’ll see with those tight t-shirts, yeah, those ones. So, this other day, I felt horny and I called him over. He came over, perhaps thinking I want him to run an errand for me. As soon as he came in, I grabbed him, and there he was trapped in a cage. There is no normal man who can resist this body. Even a married man would spend all his salary just to have this. Don’t let this apron fool you. If I could, I would say go ahead and open these drawers and witness for yourself that I am not joking. But hey, let’s not get into that right now. Poor Biyela’s boy, his knees were shaking after I kissed him and felt his chest. Then his pants were down. I am a professional, I am not quick to open my drawers before I see what size I am dealing with. I don’t want to waste my body for a sweet nothing.       I got onto the bed first and then I did this (does expression). Then I was like, wait, what the hell am I seeing? That thing is smaaaall (mimics). I immediately said he must dress up. Oh, poor thing. I made Biyela dress up and told him to close the door behind him. Oh, no thanks. It’s actually true what they say about guys who work out. Big big arms and big big muscles, but tiny tiny (expresses) sausages.  Meaning that those Ben 10’s who get paid are really good at their job. Plus, they have gone to Vhenda, so you have nothing to worry about. I can just imagine spending the whole night being tickled trying to beat the odds (demonstrates). Not on my pussy dude! Imagine if a mistake or misfortune of cheating could happen then I get pregnant with that small toy of his. Geeeez, no thanks! Then there I am, going to clinics while pregnant. If he is anything like his father, then that small body builder would be lowering the stomach. Whooo shem, then I will have to deal with the nurses in their white and navy-blue uniforms busy telling me crap while I lay on the benches. (As nurses:) ‘What were you thinking when you did that? Cool, just lay there on those benches, isn’t it nice? Wasn’t it nice when you opened your legs in celebration?’ ‘It was a mistake. I didn’t mean to.’ (As nurses:) ‘It was a mistake? What did you think will happen when you take off your panty and a boy gets on top of you? Do you see consequences of being arrogant? Leave us alone and stop crying. You are making noise here. We are working here. We have your peers to attend to. Leave the passage, you didn’t have a c-section, we know those who have had one.’ Eish, it would be good for us as girls to listen to our parents when they advise us. They know what they are telling you. I constantly tell my girl, Asa: ‘Once your breasts start developing and you start wanting to sleep with boys, just take your bags and leave my place. You can go stay with your aunties in the rural area of Pongola. Because I do not have time to pamper babies and deal with grandkids drama here at this place of rental. Please, don’t you dare test me!’     Pampers are expensive and it’s irritating that you will be stepping on them all over your place. They just create more rubbish and dirt for you. South Africa is a joke. They are making us pay for pampers, where does the government expect us to get the money? Our kids are giving birth like there’s no tomorrow. Or maybe the government realizes that they can recoup the social grant money through pampers sales?   Next year, you'll see – the social grant will increase and the number of babies will increase too. You can write this down, don’t say I didn’t tell you. Because our children... hey, I rest my case (expression) Let’s not go there! I am beginning to suspect that this social grant money isn't just for the baby anymore — seems like someone's already stashing away their own cut, right? The queues for these grants are getting longer and longer. Then the whole place just gets cramped, you can’t even walk. Everyone just pushing and shoving. You may even get slapped. They will do anything to get their money. The reason I’m saying this money isn’t reaching the kids anymore? Well, it’s because once the mother gets hold of the money, you will see her flaunting at Checkers Cambridge, strutting down with those fourth streets bottles like she’s on a runway.    On the same scene, you see a Kentucky carrier bag on the right and clothes from Mr Price.  In all your lifetime, have you ever seen baby clothes at being sold at Mr Price? Not Ackermans, but Mr Price. That little one over there, barely managing to keep the towel on his back, poor thing—he's a mess! Snot running down his face, and oh look, a green fly perched on what's left of that chicken drumstick. Not a scrap of meat left, just a dry bone he's been sucking on for dear life. Ah (emphasis), such a pitiful sight. You know, this takes me right back to the old days in Pongola, where I grew up. My grandmother, MamDlamini, used to say those very words. Sharp as a tack, that woman, even with her fading eyesight. She’d gather all of us grandkids, sit us down, and we knew a scolding was coming our way. Of course, we’d secretly mimic her behind her back and make fun of her.     (As grandpa Mbhekeni:) ‘Why am I talking to myself like a madman? Call everyone in! The cattle have returned, have you put them in the kraal? Where is Bawinile and the other children? I hope you’ve got the firewood ready, because I’ve heard all about your shenanigans you bitches. Word has it you spend your days chasing after those Msweli boys. When they go hunting, there you are. When they are shepherding, there you are. Listen up! We didn’t give birth to girls who are obsessed with boys, you hear me? It’s time to set things right. Step forward, I’ll steer you in the right direction. Come here before me, I need to straighten you out. As a woman you carry something special. This treasure you carry between your legs deserves to be guarded and respected, for it is your father's legacy, a symbol of life itself. It’s not just something to flaunt carelessly with any uncircumcised boy, do you hear me? And you, my boys, learn how to treat a woman with respect, for she will be the pillar that holds you up, and one day, she’ll help you become a man of honour in the community. If you don’t do what’s right, who will build the homes of the future? I won’t be here forever, so I’m advising you now, so that when you are grown, you will walk the right path, not fall into the nonsense that has driven people away from their humanity, leaving behind shells of men who will cripple the next generation. Babazile, is my brew ready? Bring it here before I die of thirst!’ After finishing his drink, he would go on to say, ‘Hey kids, come have a haircut,’ — that time he wants to cut us with a bottle. And then there’s MaDlamini, the strong-willed woman who straightened me out and put me in line. That’s why, as I look at this world now governed by children’s rights, I know something has gone terribly wrong, because the rod is no longer used.    I give my kids a good hiding when they misbehave. Feel free to go report me to the police. You’ll get a beating from me just as I did when I came back from the police station. No government or its laws will tell me how to raise my kids—kids I carried through tears in the maternity ward. I won’t have it any other way. I’m the government in my house. Fuck you if you don’t like that! Go ahead and live your life, and we’ll see how far you get. I’m telling you now, just look at what happens when children are not being beaten; they turn into thugs, drug addicts, and hooligans of all sorts (emphasis). Disgusting! You should be ashamed of yourselves. Tell me, what kind of parent accepts a bribe from a teacher who abused your own child? You’re a disgrace if you condone this kind of filth. Just like those parents in Nquthu, after news broke about that teacher who slept with a student. And yet here we are, hearing more shocking things on the radio, with parents showing the world how little they care. Geez, they should be arrested, but they keep crying about poverty—poverty this, poverty that. Voetsek! (Emphasis) As for me, I'm struggling too, but do you see me selling my Asa for a bribe? No way. Why don’t you try to live a better life instead of accepting bribes for your child? I don’t smoke weed.    I’ve had my fair share of the good life too, you know, I used to relax, sip some drinks, and doze off. Then I’d be thinking about my exes. Exes are cruel. They are all about sabotage. Like the one who went to her ex’s wedding just to ruin it! She showed up and did the bride’s makeup, and then purposely messed up her face. The other bridesmaids tried to make her stop but the ex said they should just relax as this is a new style of make-up. That backward crowd of bridesmaids from the village believed her. They then told the bride not to look in the mirror because it’s bad luck to do so before the wedding. (Laughs) And you, the groom? Don’t think you are not off the hook, hey. You will find yourself getting a tailor for your expensive wedding suit who happens to be your girlfriend’s ex. You’ll end up wearing a jumpsuit instead of the fancy suit you planned for your wedding because your girlfriend’s ex sabotaged it all. That’s why I make sure to part ways with my exes on good terms. Except for one, the baby daddy. With him, it was pure war. Every woman who passed by in tight leggings or low-cut tops, he couldn’t resist staring! I’d sit there at my stall, selling to my customers, and he’d be drooling over other women. I would pretend I don’t hear anything and just carry on selling to my customers.    One day, he even asked for a phone number from a prostitute with fake eye lashes who came by to buy something. As for me, I wasn’t in the mood that day, especially since the police had just taken all my goods eish. But there he was, flirting and giggling with this prostitute. I had no idea whether they were laughing at me and my bad luck with the police. (Describing the incident) I asked her, ‘Can I help you?’ (As the lady) ‘No, I was just thinking about buying something, but your brother told me I should come back later because the police have arrived.’ I snapped, ‘Did you think flirting with this loser was going to help you? Why don’t you go to another stall if you really want to buy something?’ (As the lady) ‘What’s your problem? Can’t I have friendly conversations with him? And who are you anyway? I was talking to him, not you!’ I was furious. ‘Do you know who this man is? He’s the father of my children!’ She fired back, ‘What’s that got to do with me? If you can’t control your man, don’t blame me!’ I lost it. ‘Mother fucker!’ (Enactment) ‘Leave me alone you piece of trash, leave me alone.’ That’s how it was with their father—I was always fighting for him, but he never respected or appreciated me as the woman he lived with. (Sobbing) He hurt me so much oh, oh, oh, oh. Men can be so…Hi, you want to buy something?    (Change of tone) ‘Wow, that's a lot of money you’re giving me—where do you think I’m going to find that much change? Go try another stall! Don’t you hear me? I said go try somewhere else!’ People are so strange these days; you tell them one thing, and they will talk back. Anyway, why don’t you be like my fruits? They’re beautiful, colourful, and delicious. They don’t talk back. But you have to handle them properly or they’ll be rotten. Just look at this orange—it has a bright, unique colour you won’t find on any other fruit. It’s a sign it’s ready to eat. Peel it carefully, and you’ll find several layers of skin inside. Some people enjoy those layers, but they’re not as tasty as the juice within. Once you finish peeling it, the juice is refreshing, perfect for quenching thirst or mixing your alcoholic drink. Some folks even use this orange juice to wash down their last smoke—it’s so sweet and nourishing. Ask those boys if you don’t believe me. The boys play with the orange, tossing it around like a ball until it softens, and then they squeeze it out for its juice. But once the juice is gone, no one wants the orange anymore—it’s just an empty shell. The peel still gives a sting to the eyes. Just try it and you’ll see. Now, let’s look at the banana. Like an orange, you wait for it to ripen. When it turns yellow, yellow bones. The ripe banana is often part of a fruit salad. In typical black weddings it’s often used in the dessert called trifle (boastfully).    Banana itself has become a toy for people’s private parts, which is disgusting as far as I’m concerned. Even the penis has been associated with many edible things—wors, carrot, banana. All these things symbolize the modern-day nastiness—the penis is just a penis, manhood. That’s it. Where was I? Oh yes, be careful not to take the banana lightly because it can embarrass you. Imagine asking to get off a taxi heading to Umlazi, only to find yourself on the freeway—I’m telling you. You’d be moving past Isipingo slowly, wearing saggy jeans, followed by flies. I know exactly what I’m talking about because it almost happened to me, but it happened to my friend instead, never mind. In summary, I’m saying the banana is to be respected because no one wants to eat it when it’s rotten and covered in black spots, like the cellulite on a yellow-bone's legs. Next, we talk about the guava, which you bite into like an apple. Whether it’s firm or soft, it’s edible but full of water.     (Emphasis) You know, when something has a lot of water, it quickly becomes unappetizing and makes a mess. You’re chewing, and now it’s all juicing out and messing up your clothes. Let’s just say the guava can take you out of style. It fills you up nicely when you're really hungry—I know because I’ve seen it, especially on the train where people are busy devouring it until they drift off to sleep and start snoring. Not sure though, perhaps they sleep due to the Shembe church service on the train. It irritates me so much when they preach non-stop. That’s what made me stop using the train—it’s the only thing. Finally, in our illustrations cabinet, let's not forget the apple. “Apple - red like Valentine, red like the colour of love—other fruits are jealous of you because none of them can compare. You can also be a curse though as it is because of you, Eve tempted Adam in the Garden of Eden.     Adam was clearly told not to touch that fruit, but he didn’t listen. Men are just like that—hard-headed. In the gang of alcohol, you stand alone on the top shelf. Even in my favourite drink you are there. As the ad goes: ‘It’s dry, but you can drink it.’ You’re lovely, apple, because even when you’re a little rottten, you’re still edible. We just take away the rotten parts and savor until you’re completely consumed. Of all the fruits, you’re the champion because you’re grown upright—so you’ll never be left behind in a fruit pack, even when taxis and contractors need you.” First, it’s apples, bananas, and oranges. In summer, mangoes are included too. Two apples and a banana—a juicy, juicy fruit—it’s delicious! (Starts singing and dancing). Eish (grabs self), I need to pee. Where’s that tissue? Weh, I’m going I’m going to wet myself! (Runs off stage). Hey, leave me alone! (Back on stage). Let me ask you—have you ever gone into a public toilet and seen such disgusting things that you wished you never had to go back to those toilets again? Well, I just came across a used pad stuck in the toilet bowl. Can you believe it? The bin is there, I mean...It’s obvious that person knew it wouldn’t flush, yet they left it there. And it wasn’t a child—it was an adult! People, let me warn you, avoid nasty habits like these because one day, you’ll embarrass yourself in front of others. You’ll become so accustomed to your bad habits that you won’t even realize when you’ve gone off the rail.  I went in the first door. It was filthy everywhere. Someone did their business and left it all like that. You’d think a bomb had exploded there. I went into another door, and at least it was clean, ooh I was so relived plus I’ve been dying to pee. Just when I thought I’d escaped the worst, there I was, shocked by the filthy writings on the walls and door. I don’t even want to repeat them. And then, there’s this lady knocking on the door while I’m inside, asking, ‘Is someone in there?’ What did she expect? Of course, there’s someone! I finished up, washed my hands like a proper person—I’m not one of those who just pees, sends a fax to Pretoria, and walks out without washing their hands. Others don’t wash their hands, when you meet them, they’ll be eager to hug you and love shaking hands! Men are the worst—they can’t aim properly when they pee, and you don’t know whether that banana of theirs is crooked because they spray pee everywhere. I know this because I used to live with that gender. There are these ladies who stand at the entrance of the ladies’ toilet. They then try to sell you what they call…uhm…rose water. It is used to wash your vagina. After that you will have your man not wanting to let go. He will be glued to you only. I view it as a waste of time. If a man doesn’t want you anymore, just let him go. Why go to extremes of even using those love potions to make him love you? Never! I used to sell these things—the yellow and pink potions—but I stopped. There was no money in it, but Kuber—now that’s still going strong (looks away).    I often sit by this table and watch people walking by, and I can see the pain written on their faces. One might seem deep in debt, with no way out. Another so ugly, it transcends imagination. Looks lost in misery, searching for a rope to hang themselves with. And yet another seems completely lost, unsure whether they’re coming or going. Some you see that soon enough they will need to be admitted to a mental institution. You find them walking around talking to themselves and suddenly burst into laughter for no reason, and then looks around. Others pick their noses in public (describes). Then there goes the finger into the mouth. You’d think some people would stop sucking their thumbs in broad daylight, but there they are, unfazed by anyone watching. I am left speechless, with saliva stuck in my throat. Seeing these things makes me realize that, as people, we are in big trouble, but we don’t see it. Haha! And then we have legendary love birds. I say this because, oh, the things we see sometimes leave us breathless. In short, there was something that I found quite disturbing. This habit of our kids, kissing and getting carried away in public places like buses, not even giving up a seat for an older person—where do they get it from? We used to date discreetly because we were scared of being caught by our parents. But these kids today make out openly in shops and don’t care who sees them. Disgusting! You are now behaving like the Indians in Chatsworth. They even ditch school, later you will see them with ties on their heads and neatly ironed trousers. It’s shocking! What is this confusion, father?"    Cigarettes—they smoke them everywhere, boys and girls alike. I don’t even know what’s going on anymore. Why don’t you try to emulate the elderly couples who are still in love? They’re so cute when they stroll together after receiving their pension fund, holding hands as they pass by our stalls. You can tell that they adore bananas—those toothless smiles! Just to be clear, I’m not talking about Black people here. I’m talking about the elderly Indian and White folks. I’ve come to understand that this is our thing as Black people whether young or old.    (As man:) ‘Hurry up!’ (Woman:) ‘Why are you leaving me behind?’ (Man:) ‘Hurry up! The soccer match has already started, and I want to go home. You have been dragging me all over town the whole day.’ (Woman:) ‘Aren’t you the one who refuses to spend money? You’re holding onto it because you know you got paid today.’ (Man:) ‘What should that be a problem? Why are you talking about the money I worked hard for? Isn’t it enough that I bought you that outfit you can wear at the wedding and paid for the groceries? You’re a bottomless pit of a woman.’ They’ll be walking away, arguing and cursing at each other all the way to the taxi rank. And let’s not forget the homosexuals. Two women are standing at my stall, and a lady in tight jeans walks by. One of them is busy buying airtime and cigarettes. While the other secretly turns to stare at her and even starts licking her lips. Her partner catches her staring. Then starts trouble. I will have to constantly call them to order and end up chasing them away. ‘Hey! You two! If you’re going to argue, take it somewhere else—not at my stall! What’s wrong with you? Can't you control yourselves?’     How on earth can your brakes not wear out while you’re constantly fiddling, meddling, messing around? You? What exactly do you want now? Freedom, huh? Rotting away in the mind, while pretending to be royalty, but deep down, you’re just like a netted rooster. Whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever (she says, shaking her head). Go shave your head bald like a man! Now we’re fighting over looks, weaves, and even our men. Just give us a break, please! What do you think separated me from the father of my kids? He tasted the chocolate box, then realized he needed to come back and try his luck with me again. I told him: ‘Out! Go back where you came from! We’re all about carrot cake in this house (pointing at it). You’ll find your chocolate box over there at Somizi’s place.’ (Mimicking Somizi:) ‘Whuuuuu, shem!’  Blackout.   